This is Jocko podcast number one 71 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko Willink.
Good Evening Echo.
Good evening.
I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the constitution of the
United States against all enemies foreign and domestic,
that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same and that I will obey the
orders of the president of the United States.
And the orders of the officers appointed over me according to the regulations
and the uniform code of military justice.
So help me God.
And that is the oath of enlistment that is made by every u s military member.
Right.
And the other day I was at a charity event for America's Mighty Warriors,
which is an organization that was created by Mrs Debbie.
Mama Lee,
the mother of Mark Lee from task unit bruiser,
who was the first seal killed in action in Iraq.
And it was a great event and it was an honor to be there.
And I spent some time answering questions from some of the people that had come
out to the event.
And one of the individuals asked a question about the fact that he had served in
the marines during the 90s during a time of peace.
And he didn't go into combat and he didn't go to war.
And he actually felt guilty about that.
He felt that he hadn't done enough.
And I told him the truth.
And the truth is that he had done what his country had asked him to do.
Yeah.
That's what he'd done.
And if the country had needed him to give more than he would have given more,
that is what the oath of enlistment is.
And it's one of,
if not the most powerful oath that a person can give.
Because when you take that oath,
if you take that oath,
you are putting your country above all else.
Okay?
Above your family,
above your future,
above your life,
above yourself.
And with that oath,
when you take that oath,
if your country needs you to sacrifice,
you will sacrifice.
And if the country needs your time,
you will give it your time.
And if it needs even more than that,
then you will give it even more.
And the good soldier,
sailor,
airman or marine,
the service men and women who defend this nation,
they will sacrifice and they will give until they have nothing left.
And it is my honor tonight to have someone on the podcast that has sacrificed
incredibly for our great nation and yet his attitude remains completely
unwavering.
He drives on and sets an example
for everyone.
Then example of pure fortitude and tenacity and one that fully represents the
motto of the Hallowed Brotherhood he will always be a part of.
And that's the United States Marine Corps and they're proud.
Maxim semper Fidelis,
always faithful,
been working to make this podcast happen for a long time.
And tonight I am grateful to have this hero with us,
a man by the name of Matthew Bradford.
Matt,
welcome to the show.
Thanks for having me on Jocko.
This is a,
it's something else to be sitting in front of you right now cause it's been a
lot of remarkable people that's been on this podcast and it's a true honor to be
here in front of you and echo and get the chance to meet you goal.
Yeah.
And I know we've been working on making this happen for a while,
so I'm glad we finally were able to get you and your family on a plane flown out
here where we can,
we can sit down and talk for a little bit and then you can get back with your
family and go have some good times.
Go swim in the pool and spend,
spend the week at the happiest place.
Yes,
indeed.
And it sounds like you're going to have good temperatures are giving you a
little heads up.
It can be a little warm here in Anaheim if you're not careful.
If you come out here in the summertime,
you,
uh,
you'll,
you'll get baked out there in the,
in the d,
in the,
in the Disney land,
not a pasty white skin.
And I'm hardheaded,
so I don't like putting sunscreen on.
So I learned the hard way.
Yeah.
Well,
hopefully you guys be all right.
Um,
all right,
so let's just go,
let's go to the beginning.
Growing up,
what that was like growing up in Kentucky and Virginia.
What was that all about?
I was born in Petersburg,
Virginia.
My Dad,
he worked at Fort Lee,
at the defense commissary agency and you know,
at an early age my parents got a divorce.
So I moved to live with my mom and Kentucky where all of my family's from.
And even today when people ask me where I'm from,
Kentucky is just easiest to answer.
And you know,
throughout my childhood,
like we moved so much,
I learned a lot because my mom,
she worked paycheck to paycheck.
So I learned a lot about,
you know,
how to appreciate things and to be thankful for things and not expect the bigger
things.
And um,
you know,
through this I learned to just go outside and be with my friends and never
expect,
you know,
a big Christmas what I knew one thing from,
from my mom and my stepdad.
And even my family around me,
the one thing they showed me and the rest of the,
our was love and it,
it taught me a lot about life at an early age.
And you know,
it's,
it's through all the moving around.
But you know,
in Kentucky,
the one thing with Kentucky is they,
they have a lot of their drug problems.
So it's getting out,
playing sports and getting away from that helped out a lot.
And you know,
all of this happened in 2001 and that's when I realized as a ninth grade in,
as a freshman in high school is when I felt like it was my purpose to serve this
country in the military.
Even though I was a freshman in high school,
sitting there watching,
you know,
the,
the terrorist attacks go on in New York City and the Pentagon.
And I felt like it was my time go home and nobody was on the streets.
Nobody was playing basketball or football or whatever the sport or the,
the Tom was.
Everybody was inside watching the news.
And also through that,
you know,
my wife,
my mom and my stepdad was going through some things as their own and,
and uh,
that's when,
thankfully my dad stepped in and my dad said,
you're coming to live with me now.
And that was the greatest decision ever because although I love Kentucky,
I don't know where I'd be at the day if,
if he,
if my dad didn't step in and you know,
pull me towards him and Virginia and moving to Virginia after my freshman year
in high school and stay in there for three years,
you know,
living right next to a army base and visiting the army based daily,
I got to chance to see what,
what,
um,
what the willingness to serve,
you know,
the patriotism and all this stuff.
And it really kind of boosts it my,
um,
my motive to serve more and more.
So when you were,
when you were in Kentucky and you are freshmen read,
you thought about the military prior to September 11th,
growing up in Kentucky,
the only thing that I wanted to do was play basketball for the university,
Kentucky.
That is,
I think that's the one thing.
And um,
you know,
you'd go out on the street or you'd play video games,
which then was the old school playstation and you just wanted to play basketball
for Kentucky.
There was nothing else.
And 2001 happened.
And that's when kind of like the,
it got in my mind,
that's why I wanted to do.
And then during that time Black Hawk down come out as the movie.
And I just watched that over and over again and I was like,
I want to be a ranger,
I want to serve,
you know then,
and then it went from the army too.
I looked into the air force special forces and their,
their special forces is way too long cause I want it to deploy.
And I actually ran into the Marine Corps recruiter at Fort Lee playing
basketball and he took us to Hooters and that's where he sold me was a Hooters
and
oh that's uh,
that's good.
I guess it doesn't,
it doesn't take,
you know,
for me when,
when the Marine Corps recruiting is awesome.
And I,
I,
I heard this fact a long time ago that the Marine Corps spends the least amount
of money on recruiting but has the best results because they just have their,
well they have marine corps,
they have the Marine Corps persona behind him,
the,
the legend of the Marine Corps.
And that I remember,
you know,
when I was a kid,
there was a guy that I knew that was a drill instructor and he would,
he was older than me,
but you know,
occasionally he'd come home and I would just think,
well obviously that's what I'm going to do.
There's no doubt in your mind,
you know,
you just see these human beings that are above and beyond anything you've ever
really seen before.
And you go,
that's,
you know,
when you're 10 years old and you see a Marine Corps drill instructor,
that's,
if that's a damn impressive site,
that is an impressive sight.
Especially when you see the dress blues walk into the cafeteria at school and
with all the metals and the red bands and it's like this is what I want it to
be.
And,
and cause growing up,
like on my mom's side,
my grandpa served and,
and then on my dad's side,
a lot of his family,
a lot of that family served in the military.
And I never realized the military was,
you know,
in my future.
But looking back on it now,
because I've been asked this question,
if you've ever,
if you just think it's,
you know,
it was set up for you to join the military and as,
as many people in my family that served,
I kind of,
you know,
to answer the question now,
I thought it was my time to serve.
And,
but I mean just the Marine Corps alone,
it's,
you know,
it wasn't my first choice because I just wanted to serve.
But I tell you what,
it's,
it was the greatest decision I ever made my life as an 18 year old,
you know,
December of my senior year in high school going to the MEP station and you know,
taking that oath and getting the date to go to bootcamp to recruit training.
And all I had to do was just give my recruiter my diploma and get on a bus and
there I go.
And surprisingly,
the first day of school,
the next year is when I was on a bus stepping on those yellow footprints and
getting screamed at.
So you decided you were going to join after September 11th,
and that was your freshman year.
Then you go from Kentucky to Virginia and,
but you're,
are you focused the whole time now you're just saying,
Yup,
I'm going in the military as soon as I get done with high school.
That's,
that's where your mindset was?
That was,
I was,
uh,
I,
my grades were bare minimum,
the average just to stay on a sports team and because all I knew was to,
my recruiter needed my diploma.
That was it.
And believe me,
there was some classes that I struggled with and I didn't know if I was going to
give him that diploma or not,
but mainly English second semester,
my senior year.
That was a,
but it was,
uh,
it was my mindset.
That's what I wanted to do.
I didn't think anything about going to college.
I just wanted to serve in the military.
Yeah,
that's,
there's something
I dunno.
You know,
I got,
I got a bunch of teenage kids.
I got two daughters and one son that are teenagers.
All right now and then I got a little girl.
But
for kids these days,
a lot of them are programmed that what you do when you get done with high school
as you go to college and the syntax is not for everybody.
It really isn't.
And for me it certainly wasn't.
It's something I want her to go.
I was like,
oh,
I do.
I wish I could have joined the military when I was like 13 B because I would
have just been such a much better person,
you know?
So.
All right.
You,
you struggle a little bit in school,
in English apparently.
What sports did you play?
I played football.
I played basketball a little bit and I pretty much played all sports.
Not for school related,
but little league baseball.
And then my wife likes to make fun of me,
but I played high school tennis from Sophomore to senior year.
And
I went out there the first practice,
my buddy that kind of like recruited me to come play.
And the coach was like,
hey,
how about you to just go down there and play a bunch of sophomore?
It's just kind of get it out of our way.
And I beat him.
Ain't nothing.
He got so mad.
It was so funny.
And like walking or walking her down,
I'm walking back to the other side of the courts and hearing the other players
like,
oh my gosh,
she just beat,
make nothing.
And the guy had red hair and his face was just as red as his hair.
And,
um,
what do you know?
Like I W I w I junior year I just the one seat on both singles and doubles and
went pretty far in the district.
And uh,
you know,
senior year was the same and it was just something that I enjoyed to do in the
springtime.
And it was a,
and honestly it's very,
you run so much that you gotta be athletic and you gotta be in shape.
And that helped out a lot too,
you know,
football in the fall and then tennis in the spring.
And so what year did you graduate in?
2005 and then you left in September of 2005 you leave for boot camp?
I did,
Yep.
Graduated in June and left in September.
So a couple of months in between.
And,
and that's the one thing like in high school there was a couple of marines are a
couple of guys that I graduated with.
We graduated on Friday and they went to boot camp on Monday and they're the ones
that kinda like Kinda kinda helped me kind of really realized that the Marine
Corps is what I wanted to do even though it's kind of what a was focused on.
When did you,
when did you sign a contract at BEPS?
December of 2004 okay.
So you had a little delayed entry,
delayed entry program,
worried about what they're going to do after high school and you're like,
I'm going to party all summer long and then I'm going to Marine Corps boot camp.
How much of a shock to your system was it when you got some Marine Corps
bootcamp?
The first three days was,
I mean it's,
it,
it was just so much like,
you know,
of course you don't sleep at all and it's just this constant yelling and you're
realizing like what in the world did I do?
Cause you can only watch it on videos and understands like okay that's on a TV
screen and it's not real life.
But it was something else getting,
you know,
I guess they arrange it up every,
every time the bus goes through Paris island,
they're going to stand on the yellow footprints in the middle of the night.
And of course that's when we got off and I was,
it was a 12 passenger van and I was Kinda in the middle seat and I had to go
through the seat belt to get out while I'm getting yelled at.
So I'm like choking myself with a seatbelt and you know,
we get to the yellow footprints and it's like you're sending there and the
position of attention and it's like your calf started tightening up and you
started just like,
oh my gosh,
what did I do?
Why did I sign this paperwork?
And I think the funniest thing was when we actually went on to Parris Island,
how this book,
this van from Virginia down to Parris Island,
eight hours,
just joking and talking.
The minute we pass the gate,
it just got silent,
like standby.
And there was,
you know,
and then you're going back like when I,
cause I turned 18 my senior year in August and I did delayed entry program or I,
you know,
went to meps December and when I would come home in December and my dad was
like,
so what'd you do?
And I was like,
I signed up for infantry in the Marine Corps.
And he was like,
you know what infantry does,
right?
And it's like,
I do,
and this is the time,
like in my room,
I had the big marine corps poster with the three marines.
And their dress blues.
I think it was the guy and the the female.
Yeah,
and it was like,
it took up the whole wall and I was,
I was dedicated to the core then and I was so excited to to raise my hand and
then go to school the next day.
We're in my meps marine corps tee shirt.
I was like,
this is it.
I'm hard to recruit,
you know,
started walking around with all the Marine Corps shirts.
I'd go to the mall and I'd walk around my shoulders all cocked back and it's
like,
this is it.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
I was trying to,
cause there's been quite a few people that have joined the military from
listening to the podcast and now whenever I talk about this,
I always try and tell them that for at least the first two weeks they're going
to hate me.
They're going to hate the military.
They're going to,
a boot camp is going to seem like the worst decision they ever made.
That was a,
I actually was speaking on the USS George Washington in Japan in 2009 and this
sailor walked up to me.
He's like,
oh,
I just got off the phone with my dad and tell him I'm reenlisting after hearing
you speak.
And I'm like,
oh gosh,
you didn't give him my name.
Did you
check?
So,
uh,
you go through boot camp and you get done and you knew your infantry the whole
time,
right?
I did.
I knew I was infantry and you know,
in 2005,
like I feel like we had about 70,
75 recruits in our platoon and majority of them were going to infantry.
And the funny thing is sitting in our squad bay and our senior drill instructor,
he was,
he was sitting in front of us talking to us up on the quarter deck and he's
like,
I got one more class after you all.
And then once I'm,
once I'm done,
I'm going to Hawaii and I'll never see you little your little pukes again and,
and you kind of just like blow that off.
It's like,
okay,
cool.
He's going to,
why I'm more than likely at East Coast Marine.
So I'm going to say it can't blow June and do my time there and hopefully never
run into him.
But then you experience the small Marine Corps gets a lot smaller and um,
you know,
once we got to Soi,
graduated from there and,
and they told us that a select few of us from Alpha Company School of infantry
would be going to Hawaii,
be station was second time,
third marines and a select few of us was our whole company and the company to
next the company.
So they,
they dropped us off in Hawaii.
And you go through there and is that
normal for like a whole company from Soi to go together to a battalion
somewhere?
I didn't think so at the,
I thought,
you know,
you know in the Marine Corps it's like east of the Mississippi,
you're pretty much going to stay all together.
But I thought they would kind of disperse you out through different battalions
and um,
thankfully to everybody,
like a lot of the guys that I went to boot camp with was in the same battalion
as me in Hawaii.
So like I create that friendship and that Brotherhood from the start of the
Marine Corps and carried it with me along the way.
And,
and I was glad because you know,
it's grown up in Kentucky and Virginia.
I didn't want to be stationed in Laguna or the east coast and they gave me this
little wishlist,
which I don't think they even look at it.
I think he's give it to you cause it's checking the box.
But yeah,
I picked,
I picked oak and down can't Pendleton as my first two choices and they pretty
much put me right in the middle.
Always tell people a free government trip to Hawaii.
I mean I can't complain about that at all.
So how was the school of Infantry?
It was cold in North Carolina.
We were during that time,
there were so many guys going through the through infantry school and a lot of
guys were just like there for a couple months,
three months.
And um,
you know,
like you go to the Chow Hall and you got to like a 10 to 20,
like a snake line of rows and rows of marines going trips,
trying to eat chow.
And I was so close to actually call my recruiter to go on recruiting assistance
because I didn't know how much longer I'd be here.
And thankfully my last name starts with a B.
And so,
so January I got selected and put an Alpha company.
And the first three weeks is just kind of learning the whole weapon systems and
working on,
you know,
going on humps and stuff.
And,
and then the next three weeks was basically out in the field the whole time
doing infantry work and clarity,
you know,
learn how to clear rooms and do a lot of mount training.
And at this point
you're,
did you guys all pretty much assume you're going to Iraq or Afghanistan?
100%.
I mean,
being an infantry man in the marine corps,
there's a war in two countries.
You,
you must have all just realized you're 100% going
pretty much.
And,
and that's the reason why I wanted to choose infantry cause I wanted to blow it
as quickly as I possibly could.
And uh,
you know,
two of my drill instructors were purple heart recipients from the battle of
Fallujah.
And um,
so it's like you Kinda,
you kinda hear it from all the drill instructors when you're going through
recruit training that you know,
this is where you're going to end up.
You know,
you go through your school and you go through your training,
but more than likely 99% of you are going to Iraq or Afghanistan.
Were you thinking about that?
Like you're on the range,
you're dialing in your weapon.
Are you thinking yourself,
I better pay attention right now because I might be needing this skill in a
couple months when I'm overseas,
I don't think it ever like cross my mind because I just did what I was told to
do.
You know?
And you know,
when it was on the rifle range or if it was like patrolling,
you know,
I tried to take in as much as I possibly could and learn as I went.
And you know,
the,
the more I learned,
I,
you know,
I learned to not only teach myself but also teach those around me and stuff
because I didn't,
you know,
you only see it on the news.
You don't really know what to experience.
And it's,
it's funny because I tried to read the book,
No true glory and I couldn't really understand what Iraq was like,
you know,
from clearing rooms are patrolling down the streets,
urban terrain.
I couldn't understand that because I wasn't there.
And you know,
of course now when I read these books I understand because I can visualize it in
my head,
but you know,
then I was just doing what I was told and I was learning as I went along.
And I,
you know,
I learned what I could through school of Infantry.
And then once I got to the fleet it kind of changed a lot because we've had to
learn what the,
with our battalion and,
and our squad and platoon was doing there
at the school of Infantry.
Did you do company sized operations of bill,
like clearances of villages and stuff like that?
We
we did towards the end of school of Infantry.
We had um,
we had all the eleven's out there and then we had the machine gunners in the
mortar man would set up and,
and we kind of,
um,
we would,
we would Humvee in and you know,
we'd go in and clear a couple of homes and stuff like that.
And,
but it was more of a company level.
It's hard.
It's hard to remember back then what it was.
Cause it was the one thing in like North Carolina,
like where we were at trying for school of Infantry,
which is a lot of like machine gun fields and a lot of like pop up targets and
those kinds of ranges.
And then the mount town wasn't as extensive as it was once we got to the fleet
and went to cacs in California.
So you would say at school of infantry you are more working on your individuals
infantry skills more than like working together with a platoon or a company size
to elements?
I think so because a lot of times at school of imagery we did a lot of fire team
stuff and um,
you know,
we did a lot of hikes every,
every Thursday once we got back from the field.
But a lot of it was like this learn weapons,
learning how to shoot at pop up targets and like moving targets and just Kinda,
um,
like learn,
just kind of learn the whole weapons,
weapons and systems and stuff.
Every marine is first and foremost a rifleman and that,
and that's where you become a rifleman.
Okay.
So now you get assigned to two,
three marines and you're,
you're heading off to Hawaii,
which is really just coming from coming from Kentucky and in Virginia and then
North Carolina.
And now all of a sudden you wake up,
you're in Hawaii.
We were actually in the squad bay,
me,
a guy from Georgia and the other guy from Tennessee and we were listening to
Craig Morgan's redneck yacht club thinking this is what we're going to do when
we get to the why.
And of course all,
I think all three of us were in different companies,
so we never saw each other once we got to y.
But you like you fly in and you get there and it's like,
oh my gosh,
we're in Hawaii and we,
we get on the bus,
we get all our gear and we get dropped off at the battalion office and we got
two of my seniors waiting on me and he's like,
they're basically pulling me to the bearish just so it's like you're all ours
now.
It's like,
oh gosh.
And then you know,
you start hearing stories from like,
other than the other guys that got there with me and how they're,
they're seniors or um,
you know,
well call me.
No Man to the,
the platoon w what,
what month did you get there?
March,
March of 2006.
Okay.
And so that as soon as you get there and those guys were just coming back from
Afghanistan,
right?
They were,
they,
they were actually over there during operation red wing and um,
yeah,
they were,
I think they get back February of 2006 so they were just getting back from their
post deployment leave and um,
you know,
once,
once we got there,
it was pretty much you got to get right into another workup and,
and then that workup is where you really start integrating everyone together,
working in platoon size elements,
working in company size elements.
It was,
and then that's when we kind of,
they told us when we first got there,
everything you learned in school of Infantry,
just like lose it because now you're going to learn what we teach you and you
know,
from everything from just like clearing conference rooms and barracks were in
just to,
you know,
working on patrolling up the streets in Hawaii.
And that was the one bad thing about being stationed in Hawaii.
That's a great place to be.
[inaudible] but there wasn't much to do any training.
And we would,
um,
I mean Lou would literally patrol up and down the streets at kb,
Connie Lee Bay,
Hawaii,
and they had a couple of old barracks that we work mounts,
you know,
we do mount training with and what's Sim rounds and um,
we do,
we'd be able to bellows,
which was like a little air force base that they were starting to create like a
mountain town.
And that's when we did a lot of our training and kind of our field work.
And now at this point are you starting to think and you got guys that are just
coming back from Afghanistan,
are you starting to think like,
okay,
now I really need to do start paying attention.
The reason I'm asking you these questions is because I'm trying to relate.
We know when I joined the navy,
it was 1990.
There was like,
I guess the Gulf War was kind of on the horizon,
but,
and it was gone so quick with that.
By the time I was in buds,
it was a over [inaudible].
And so even when I was doing workups and stuff,
like I would always be thinking
like,
okay,
I need to be good at this because some day I might need this skill,
but that's a big stretch,
you know what I mean?
Whereas once September 11th happened,
every one of these young guys that was coming in,
it was like,
oh,
I'm probably,
it wasn't like some day I might need this skill was like,
I'm probably going to need this skill in the next couple months to save my life
or my friend's lives.
Did you feel like that kind of intensity from yourself and from the other guys
that were just coming back from overseas?
I think so because I feel like the way they were,
um,
kind of instructing us and teaching us this stuff and they kept relaying that
any minute now that we could be called up and deployed.
And you started getting more serious about it.
And I think my attitude changed and it wasn't more of like joking around,
even though I like to joke a lot,
but it was when it's time to be serious,
it's time to be serious.
And it's time to learn,
you know,
and you know,
whatever weapons I was carrying around,
if it's a or the,
the,
um,
the rifle,
the m 16,
you need to learn everything about that and you need to learn it too.
It's t and I think that's the one thing that I really paid more attention about
and,
and it's,
um,
but it was just like you could feel it from your seniors because they
experienced like casually as they experienced deaths over in Afghanistan,
they knew what combat was like and you started understanding that this is
serious.
Now this thing,
you know,
the sign of video game or a joke,
you're getting ready to go to war and you know,
five,
six,
seven months or even tomorrow,
you never know.
And so everything that you need to learn here is something that you need to take
serious because this is,
you could be,
have yourself in this situation when you're in combat.
At what point did you know where you were deploying to that you were deploying
to Iraq?
I felt like it was after cacs and July we were in,
we were in kayaks from June to July of 2006,
which is great.
Wants to be in the deserts in California.
But I feel like once we got back there,
it was pretty much like we're going to our rack and,
and that was so,
so we're still in is this Oh,
fibro six oh six.
Okay,
got it.
Yeah.
Join join September,
2005 and I was on a plane in September,
2006.
I had a towel rack.
So that's,
uh,
one of the things I want to do in the Marine Corps.
As I mentioned,
it was just I wanted to deploy and I was literally in the Marine Corps a year
and I was already on a plane headed overseas
and then did well what point did you know you were where an Iraqi we're going,
that you were heading up to [inaudible]?
I think we,
we knew we were going through the Al Anbar in the Northwestern part of our app,
but we were never told what city.
I think once we got to al-Assad and we were starting to relieve three three in
here about like what they went through and where they were at is when we started
really realizing,
okay,
this is where we're going.
So it was when you actually got to,
you got in countries when you realized,
okay we're going to [inaudible] you knew that you were going to relieve three,
three,
you probably heard a bunch of the stories and I mean,
so this is,
so I was in,
I was in Ramadi at this time,
um,
you know from the Spring of Oh six until the fall of [inaudible].
So you're,
we overlapped probably by about a month,
maybe a little bit more of when you arrived in Iraq and you flew in Dallas audio
said
flu analysis side and we were there basically a day and then while we were in
hour saw,
three,
three was starting to pull some of their marines out.
And that's when we started interacting with them.
And they told us that they felt bad from what we were getting ready to get
involved.
They lost so many marines while they were over there.
And,
and then it's just kind of like,
you hear stories of other guys in our company,
like basically in a firefight just to get on their fob.
And you know,
once we left al-Assad,
we,
we took 'em,
we flew up to the head Etha dam and middle of the night and stayed there
overnight.
We started loading our mags and we got in a big convoy and we,
we drove into it either and it was um,
I mean he uses like you hear the,
of a diva from three three and then when three one went through their stint
before and it's just wild,
wild west.
And again,
you only see it on TV.
You never expect to be walking the same streets and you know,
this stuff going on.
But they know the first time we went out on patrol it was,
it was nerve wracking.
It was not like,
cause it's like you do this and training so much and you feel like you do it so
well.
But now that you're in a situation where it's like,
oh gosh,
you know,
I've got to look here.
I got to look up,
I got to look down.
And what was your position in the platoon that was appointment has a,
and then it was,
uh,
it was fun.
You know,
as a,
I think after the first fire fight is when you're like,
you kind of like,
okay,
I could do this.
This is good.
I'm motivated now.
You know?
And,
and I was that guy.
Remember one,
one time we got in a firefight.
And,
um,
before we went on patrol,
I was like,
Gosh,
I'm ready to get some,
I'm ready to get a firefight,
you know?
And,
and I didn't know my squad leader heard this,
but after we got into like a two or three hour long firefight,
we're walking back onto the fob and he yells at me,
Bretford I'm like,
what?
He's like,
I'm gonna kill you.
Like,
what did I do now?
You know,
it's like we all come back alive.
You know?
I feel like that was a good thing,
but it was,
uh,
you know,
it's,
it's funny,
the first firefight we got into,
we were in the palm groves and we're walking along this compound wall and these,
these little trees there,
there are no bigger than there are no water,
then a softball.
And then there was one,
no water,
then a baseball and they open up from our left.
And so me and my team leader jumped behind the one that's the size of a softball
and he's like,
Hey Bretford get over there by that tree.
And I'm like,
well crap,
that one's smaller than this one,
you know?
And,
and then our Corman,
who was a,
he was a,
is a junior core man.
He had the shotgun for breaching and he laid off around and I don't,
I'm pretty sure he didn't hit the guy,
but the boom scared him and he took off.
And,
but it was just a,
and of course the same day in the marine corps,
it's just a,
our comms went out.
And so the stuff that we got was kind of crap.
So it's like here we are in the middle of the palm groves after a fire fight and
we don't have no cons,
were shooting up smoke and trying to get somebody to come down there and help
us,
you know.
And so what was,
where were you guys living in?
Had Ethan,
there was a fog in the middle of the town that we were,
um,
we say that that was our home and it was right in the Iraqis houses.
And was it a,
was it a platoon size element in there or a company size element of there?
It was a company the way that,
um,
our battalion was split up,
the battalion commander and the headquarters was much more in the dam,
the dam.
And then Adita was the main EO because there's a larger city and that's where
our company was echo company.
And we had,
um,
we had golf company to the south of us in Hawk Linea.
And then across the river in Botswana was Fox company.
And,
and weapons company would basically go from,
from,
from Aota at Eo.
And about three months into the deployment,
our battalion commander and the headquarters detachment would come and they
actually set up shop and [inaudible] with us once the Iraqi police,
Iraqi army left our fob.
And um,
you know,
we had,
uh,
we,
yeah,
there was,
it was a company element and we pretty much ran,
you know,
the fourth platoon would work more with the Iraqi police,
Iraqi army.
And then the one platoon was basically set up for mobile and the other tunes
would rotate back and forth between posts and patrol.
So it was,
I forget how many days on we would be off on posts duty and then it just kind of
rotate back and forth.
And when we were in a,
at our mobile unit got hit so hard that they had to change out.
And,
uh,
another platoon had to take over just because of the,
the snipers that indirects,
Ids,
just,
we lost so many guys.
And throughout that whole deployment,
the whole battalion lost 23 marines.
And I think echo company lost non marines.
And,
um,
the majority I think,
uh,
I think all of them were within the first two or three months.
Not to mention the purple heart recipients that we got from that deployment.
And when you were,
were you guys doing,
most of you guys are doing almost all foot patrol out of the fog.
I wish we were a foot patrol,
every patrol and I actually felt safer walking the streets and I did in the
vehicle and um,
I mean we'd get in the back of a seven ton and they're launching grenades or the
seven ton trying to blow us up.
Then you know,
the one time that we were in a patrol with the Iraqi army,
we were in the old,
old green Humvees with no up armor and me and my friend was sitting in the back
seat was like good luck.
I love you brother.
Cause cause if this something happens right now,
then we're,
we're screwed.
Yeah,
the old Humvees aren't going to take an ID.
I hit very well.
No,
not at all.
And it was like I,
I love being over there.
You know,
we talking about serving this country and you know,
the one time that were in our rack,
it's like we had one big screen TV in our Chow Hall,
but we were never in a chow hall.
We lived in an Iraqi house and it was just our platoon.
And you were away from the news.
You're away from society,
everything going on.
It was just you and your brothers.
And that's the one thing like today I miss more than anything.
It's just being around those guys and you,
you see them open up and you know when,
when you're,
when you're a marine brother,
you know,
gets killed or wounded.
Like you see the emotion that it's like you're there for him,
you know,
when he comes to you.
And those are the things that I miss more about the Marine Corps.
And unfortunately living in Kentucky today,
it's like you're not around the Marine Corps base and you're,
you know,
I get to see my friends.
I Dunno,
once a year it seems like in a lot of the guys in my platoon,
I haven't even seen since my injury.
The,
uh,
the,
well,
how long would you guys go on patrol for?
Like what would you guys patrol for a couple hours?
Would you guys find it objective and then head that way and then check it out?
Then come back.
Did you have an objective?
We just do an presence patrols.
What was that all about?
We were doing a lot of meet and greets,
presence,
patrols,
id,
patrols.
We'd go off for two or three hours sometimes we'd actually go out and set up a
patrol in the middle of town and just stayed there for a couple of nights and
run patrols out of the patrol base.
Later on in the deployment,
our,
um,
our company commander kind of made it a,
an objective set up patrol basis throughout the town.
We had one in north,
had Ethan one in south and then went out and kind of the,
um,
I guess that'd be the,
the western part of the data.
And um,
which we'd basically,
we'd have engineers come in and they'd build like little little fobs out these
houses and actually spent Christmas at 2006 on that.
The patrol base up in North Edema and it was sitting there on the roof in the
middle of the night eating cold Turkey and ham,
you know,
and merry Christmas Bro.
And it's so funny because it's like they told us,
it was like,
oh,
you're going to have Christmas off.
Yeah.
Nah,
that didn't last very long because here we are on patrol going up to north of
[inaudible].
But it was,
uh,
it was fun.
I enjoyed it.
And you know,
one of the,
some of the cool things that we did there we were,
we had a,
they believed there was a cache and one of the islands and there was no bridge,
nothing to get to the island.
And the only way to get there was to take river rafts.
And I'm not going to lie,
that was the one time I felt like I was a navy seal going down either Fraser
River on a river raft.
And,
uh,
but it was in the middle of the night and they had a two 40 on the front of it
and they would pick us up from the bridge and we would ride up right to the,
that,
the,
um,
the island.
And we actually dug and dug in and stayed there overnight.
And I believe that was Thanksgiving of 2006 so I was happy holidays or the
holidays,
you know,
so like looking back now on the holidays and Thanksgiving and Christmas,
it's like,
I just look back on those two moments of my life.
It's like sleeping on a cold island because people look at our rack and think
it's warm all the time,
but it's pretty cold over there in the winter months.
And then of course,
Christmas Thompson on the roof.
And how often were you guys getting indirect fire into your,
into your fob,
you guys with mortars?
A lot.
We got mortared about every,
every day,
about five o'clock,
you know,
child time.
And one of the times,
like we had a,
I dunno,
it was like a heel.
It was like a big sand hill in the middle of our farm.
And we had a couple of posts up on top of it and I was actually,
we were on post duty and they was like Bretford once you bring these batteries
up to post five,
which is at the end of it.
And so I take a battery to it and I'm walking down and like going down,
this is very steep.
And while I'm halfway down,
they started dropping mortars,
honest.
And it's like,
I'm thinking to myself,
it's like,
should I go back to the post or should I ruin?
And like I'd take all sprinting down the hill.
Thankfully I didn't like roll all the way down and my team leader,
like when I run in that I was like,
where's Bradford?
And I'm like sitting here like gasping for air,
but it's like spring it across the,
this,
you know,
down this big hill.
But um,
but yeah,
we got a,
we got mortared about every afternoon and,
and thankfully they,
their mortar salt because they missed.
And I'm one of the times we were actually very lucky.
We were in our fob,
we were in our house and we were all kicked back on our bunk beds.
And my really good friend,
my best friend actually was working on the hot air tank or whatever it was
outside and they dropped them order like 30 feet behind our house.
And when that thing hit,
we just automatically went to our gear because it sounded like it went right
through the middle of our house and he ended up taking shrapnel in the leg.
And thankfully that was it.
And that's when I realized that,
you know,
I had to have many friends that got killed when I was over there,
but I wasn't,
you know,
right there listening to him scream as a paternity suit on.
And that's when I realized that this is real,
you know,
and I'll not only,
it's like,
yeah,
this guys like fighting to put a tourniquet on and,
and he's my best friend,
he was my roommate when I was in Hawaii and it really killed me thankfully,
that he didn't lose a leg.
He come back in a couple of weeks and he was sitting there showing his pieces of
shrapnel and tell him,
I said he went down to Alison and have some ice cream.
And it's like,
Eh,
you know,
forget the way I felt about it,
but,
but it's uh,
you know,
a lot of the,
a lot of the scary moments bring together the,
the true brothers,
you know,
and the fellowship.
And then how long was it?
Was it January is when you got injured?
January 18 2007 and we were four months into a deployment.
We started kind of,
you know,
you could start here in a little scuttle butt about the ad von coming in.
You know,
we're getting ready to start heading out and you know,
the,
the other units coming in.
And I actually was speaking to my uncle on the phone that day,
you know,
and we rarely get to call home.
And I was telling him,
I was like,
can you know deployments going well,
you know,
they're starting to talk about other guys coming in,
and,
and hung up the phone because we had to go to a brief and the brief was the
patrol.
And you know,
unfortunately I don't remembering at this part right here,
I remember all the way up til like the last minute walking down the street.
And as I was walking point,
I look out in front of me,
you know,
we're walking along a road alongside the parallel or you Fraser River is called
park place.
And we were coming up past his compound wall and to this opening with a bunch of
palm trees.
And I see a white bag leaned up against the palm tree,
about 30 yards off to my right.
And as a,
you know,
like a little bit late was a suspicious item.
And I turn around and tell my team leader to my left and he was on the other
side of the road and I turned around and tell everybody behind me.
And the minute I turned back around and I looked down and there was a stitched
at ran perpendicular to the road and I see the wires going inside the pipe
underneath the road.
And I was standing right on top of the pipe and I mean in a matter of seconds it
exploded.
And sending shrapnel in both my eyes and that,
that was the last thing I ever saw was at white bag and those wires.
And um,
you know,
is this is laying there conscious like hearing everything going on around me,
my squad leader calling and QRF and you know,
just,
I actually had the,
the litter kit in my pack,
so it's like they had to figure that out.
And then the whole time I was trying to stand up.
Do you know,
I had my left leg was,
it was blown off.
Like I didn't have a left leg.
My right leg was severely damaged and um,
but just felt like people always ask me like,
what were you feeling when this was all going on?
And it went so quick that I don't even think I had a chance to fill anything.
Like I literally went from like walking down the patrol,
seeing something suspicious to laying on the ground,
looking in darkness.
And I didn't know if that was it.
If I didn't know if I was dead and you know,
it just hearing voices around me,
they put me in the kit and they take me into a compound and you know,
as we're waiting on QRF to get there,
you know my buddy's look,
they're sitting there holding my hand talking to me because you know,
out of our squad,
we probably got into the most firefights out of our whole company,
but it was,
we left the fog with full marines.
We'd always come back with told marines.
We let the enemy know that if you're going to mess with us,
we're going to give you everything.
We've gotten more and this is the first time that we suffered any kind of
casualty and lay in there like,
you know,
basically fighting for my life and they're holding my hands,
talking to them.
If they didn't think I would make it out of there.
And as QRF shows up,
they put me in the back of a Humvee.
And the last voice I heard was,
as I mentioned earlier,
the small Marine Corps was from my senior drill instructor who was a platoon
sergeant in the same company said,
Bradford,
you'll be fine.
And then I passed out.
I didn't know if that was it.
I didn't know if I was truly dead.
Now that was the end.
I felt like I was only 20 years old and I felt like that was the end of my life.
And those are the last words I heard.
And um,
you know,
I woke up three weeks later from a coma,
and this is when I realized that what I truly love to do,
that my true purpose in life was to serve this country,
wearing the uniform.
And it was taken from me.
Like here I am in the United States,
while my brothers are over there in Iraq fighting right now,
I felt like a coward.
Like they would try to,
they would call me when they could and I wouldn't want to talk to him on the
phone.
Like,
I would always tell him what some kind of excuse that I'm sleeping or I'm doing
something just so I didn't have to talk to him because I felt like I let them
down and that it,
it killed me.
And then once,
once my dad told me that I lost my legs,
that was the worst thing in the world.
Then I just wanted to die.
I like the guilt to depression.
I didn't want to live a life anymore and I always,
I always told him like when he told me that I was like,
I felt like my legs were like a Lizard's tail.
You know,
it's like they'll grow back.
Like you see it on the news all the time,
but you never expect it to happen to yourself.
And here I am.
I didn't care nothing about the vision.
I just wanted my legs back cause it was,
it was tough those first two or three weeks after getting out of ICU.
Like I wouldn't eat nothing.
I was so skinny,
I could barely lift my head up off the bed.
And the hospital band that they gave me would go all the way up to my,
my bicep pretty much because I just wouldn't want to eat.
I want it to die.
Like the nurses hated me.
Like one of one of the nurses coming in at like two in the morning.
I finally got some sleep and she kept poking me around with the needle and I
literally called her a stupid idiot and like,
and she wasn't my nurse no more.
And,
and I,
I felt so bad,
but you know,
it just,
I felt like my whole life was taken from me just from stepping in that bomb.
You know,
I knew what could happen to me and my whole point of being deployed was I'm
either going to come home with my Bros,
I'm come home in a body bag.
There's no in the middle.
And,
uh,
and here I am now down this whole dark path,
this new road,
you know,
as a 20 year old,
how in the world am I going to live my life now?
Like I got,
I don't even know what a Blonde Guy Gal,
no legs can do.
Oh,
at what point did you realize that you weren't gonna be able to see anymore?
It was pretty much march,
Sec,
and I believe it was my last surgery that they tried to Kinda like give me some
vision back and nothing come back from that.
And you know,
about the time,
March 2nd got there,
I was still positive and upbeat and I was moving around a lot more,
starting to gain weight and um,
but you know,
they,
they told me that they can do the surgery,
but then they also told me that it's,
it's not,
uh,
you know,
a high percentage that you're going to get vision back at all.
You know,
when they started coming to like talking about,
um,
you know,
live in life,
visually impaired and,
but it was,
uh,
it was tough.
It was,
it wasn't,
you know,
and to me the,
the vision didn't bother me much at all.
They was losing my legs.
And you know,
the Marine Corps,
uh,
you know,
it's the joining the Marine Corps in 2004 was the greatest decision of my life
for the reasons like this right now because it was the marine corps that was
there each and every day in my hospital room talking to me and,
um,
helping me understand that this road that I'm getting ready to go down,
you know,
that there is the light at the end of the tunnel.
And not only talking about my deployment or talking about the marine corps,
but just talking about life and coming in there joking around with me and
because,
uh,
you know,
looking back on it now,
I'm truly fortunate and blessed to be here today because the amount of blood I
lost was a body's worth of blood.
My left leg was taken from me.
I have peace of my small intestines taken out,
you know,
shrapnel went through both my eyes and,
and you know,
it's just,
it's truly a blessing
now that's obviously a big transition of calling it a blessing and calling your,
where you're at right now.
A blessing from when you first realized your situation and you're saying,
hey,
you,
you wanted to die.
I mean,
that's,
that's just as bad as it gets.
What do you think it was that made you start to realize,
you know what,
all right,
here's my new situation and I'm going to,
I'm going to get after it.
The marines that would come in to visit me,
they kept reiterating that I was a marine.
The nurses,
the corpsman,
even though I would fight it,
they never gave up on me and they still pushed and challenged me.
And I think that was the one thing that made me realize that this is just a new
challenge for me.
You know?
And the one thing in the marine corps is to adapt and overcome.
I'm gonna have to learn to adapt to these injuries and overcome it.
And,
um,
that's one thing that helped me realize that there's life outside of the
hospital doors.
Because at that time when I was going through the depression and guilt,
there was two roads I could have went down.
You know,
the self pity,
the drugs,
alcoholism,
suicide.
But I don't want to go down that road.
I didn't want to be another statistic.
I want to go down the road of happiness and live in my life to the fullest and
proving people wrong.
People tell me I can't do something,
that I'm going to go out and do it.
I want to be that blind guy with no legs proving people wrong.
You know?
And,
and that's what I always told people when I first got her.
I was like,
anything you can do,
I can do,
I might do it differently,
but it's going to get done.
And during that time,
with that marine coming in,
that hospital room,
this was when I realized in my mind that this is what I wanna do.
I wanna I want to put myself in his position.
I want to help out other severely wounded warriors,
marines,
soldiers,
sailors,
airmen.
And I begin creating these goals.
And these,
you know,
so a lot of them broad,
the one broad wind was staying in the Marine Corps and you know,
but I realized that I need these little goals.
First I need to learn to get out of my hospital bed.
I need to go from hospital bed to my wheelchair and I need to learn to eat.
And the,
once I started realizing this and I started putting my mind in the right
direction,
then I started getting off medications.
I started getting off pain pills and I started getting more weight on my body.
And I was injured on January 18th.
I was in Bethesda on January 21st and by March 20,
first I was headed to my,
the polytrauma center in Richmond,
Virginia,
where I would focus more on physical therapy and occupational therapy.
So it's like,
you know,
I,
I was young and I healed quicker,
but once I got it in my mind that I could do this,
then I didn't need,
I didn't want anybody slowing me down.
And,
and that's,
uh,
you know,
I went through the polytrauma center and I was there for two months and by June
29th of 2007,
I was signed up on my prostate legs for the first time.
And,
uh,
you
know,
one of the things that I talk about,
what I talked to vets is I always tell them,
you know,
people say w,
W,
w how do we get through this?
And I always say,
you got to find a new mission.
And because you know,
you've had this mission,
whatever that mission was,
whether whatever service branch you were in,
wherever you are fighting,
you had a mission and it makes your life very clear and simple because what you
do every day is you tried to accomplish the mission.
And when I,
when I hear you talking about that,
it's like,
it's exactly that.
You were in a situation,
you had a mission,
boom,
you get blown up now you don't have a mission anymore.
And now when you get,
you wake up in Bethesda,
you're,
you're in this situation.
You Go,
oh,
I don't,
I'm depressed.
I don't want to live anymore.
And then someone comes in and says,
hey,
you can help.
And then all of a sudden,
boom,
you have a new mission.
And as soon as you get that new mission,
you go,
yes,
I can.
Oh,
and by the way,
you,
you don't think I'm going to be able to walk.
You don't think I want to be able to fend for myself.
Watch this.
And you know,
like looking back and out January 18th,
2007,
I felt like that was the day that the Lord above looked down on me.
He didn't want me to,
he didn't want me to go to heaven yet.
And he gave me,
he put me on a new patrol in life as you mentioned,
mission.
And that was to share my story and inspire it others by living my life to the
fullest and beyond my own bare minimal.
And I felt like that,
um,
I feel like that was my new mission in life.
That you know,
we're all brought on this earth to serve in some kind of purpose,
served some mission and you know,
sharing my story and going out,
doing things that I'm doing today is inspiring and motivating others,
not those who were injured in combat,
but people who are living,
you know,
a civilian life today.
And it truly inspires and motivates me to continue doing what I'm doing.
Because I know that I'm inspiring somebody along the way.
And I always tell people,
if I could do inspire,
motivate one person a day,
then that's a job well done for me.
And that's what I'm left on this earth to do.
And um,
I love it.
You know,
it's just a,
this is what I've been given and I might as well accept it and move on.
You know,
improvise something that we're always learned in the Marine Corps.
And you know,
when I,
when I do speaking engagements,
I focused on a lot of things in the Marine Corps that I learned,
like adapt and overcome.
And you know,
the next one is lead by example,
which you know a lot about I'm sure.
And then the next one is never quit.
And through it all through those three,
attitude is everything.
If you walk into any situation with a positive attitude,
that's the first step to success.
If you think about something negatively,
then you're never going to accomplish anything.
So when I was laying in that hospital bed,
there was no negative thoughts,
you know,
and I had guys,
one of the Marines who were actually was wounded two months before me,
lost a leg in Adita would come in day in and night and he would also kind of
tell me,
it's like,
all right,
this is what's going to go on.
You know,
you're going to get a prosthetic.
It's going to be a long,
you know,
it's the rehabs intense,
but this is it,
you know,
but put one foot in front of the next.
And that's what I kept living life with.
And when I was trying to learn how to walk in 2007,
I was a,
as a double amputee,
tend to scissor walk one foot in front of the next and you pretty much trip over
yourself and you look like an idiot.
But,
um,
but with vision,
I was going from the right wall to the left wall and my physical therapist
stopped.
Things like Matt,
just stop,
just,
just walk,
put one foot in front of the next.
And I looked back on that now.
And that's how we live each and every day.
It's like we never know what tomorrow's going to hold or next week we've got to
worry about right now in the present.
And that's how I live my life right now.
And I never know what that next step's going to be,
but I'm going to take that step forward,
you know?
And you know,
I might walk around with two prosthetic legs and look darkness in the,
you know,
the face every day.
But tell you one thing,
my uh,
my toes are pointing forward and my vision on life is 2020.
And that's what I tell people today.
And it's a,
I love it.
And it's,
you know,
it's the adrenaline,
the motivation to do things when you can't see and it hurts
when you run into thanks to so,
so the attitude of just walk,
that's,
that's a,
that's a beautiful attitude to have.
Just walk,
quit,
quit all this other stuff,
just get up walk.
How hard was the transition from the bed to the wheelchair,
to the,
to the prosthetics to walk into moving on the prosthetics?
It really,
I think getting used to the prosthetics was,
you know,
basically getting my legs used to wearing prosthetics and that,
that was the hardest thing because like I would go to therapy every day and I
would put them on and I'd walk around in therapy,
but then I'd go right back to the wheelchair and,
and really never,
never wore them more than,
you know,
a couple hours a day just because I'd swarming therapy until I went to the blind
school in Chicago.
And this gave me the opportunity where I had no chance to go back to my room and
take them off.
So I had to wear them from seven in the morning to five at night.
And that's helped me strengthen up my legs and the callouses on my legs get used
to wearing prosthetics.
And once I got back from the blind school,
six months of there,
I was pretty much on my legs from sunrise to sunset and,
and uh,
that was,
uh,
but you know,
through,
you know,
setting these goals early on in my rehab,
like re enlist in the Marine Corps was the one thing that I wanted to do.
And so learning how to walk,
I focused on that more than my,
my blindness because I,
I knew learning,
uh,
learning life,
you know,
in the dark would be a lot easier with legs.
And that helped out so much because I tried to maneuver around in a wheelchair,
being blind and a long cane and all this stuff.
And I just kept running into more things.
But once I got on my legs and I started using a long cane and started walking
around and,
you know,
it really helped out a lot.
So like
that's like the ultimate form of prioritize and execute.
Yeah.
You know what?
Okay,
I can't see,
but I can't walk the number one thing I'm gonna do exactly what she did.
And you know,
it's the,
from the hospital bed to the wheelchair to the prosthetics and then go to the
blind school,
knock that out.
And once I'm at the blind school,
I'm learning everything from computer to independent.
And that's a six month school going to the blind school.
The,
the,
the first program is six months and that's basically learning to live BM,
visually impaired.
And you go back for computers and they got so many different programs now.
But I went there for basically from July to December just because I incorporated
computers and with my program as well.
And a saas spent from July to December in Chicago.
So I experienced the cold weather there,
but you don't learn everything from,
you know,
checking emails to Braille to taking,
um,
taking the subway and train all the way downtown Chicago and circling the block
and even build a bird house.
When I was in Chicago,
and I don't know about you,
but a table saw scared me when I had
vision trying to,
trying to cut,
cut a piece of board when
vision.
That's a little intimidating there.
But,
uh,
I didn't lose a finger,
thankfully.
Yeah,
you know that,
that's another thing that I'm hearing about what you're saying is like the way
in,
and this is something you hear all the time,
but the way that you're describing it is people say,
Oh,
you know,
you're going to get your big goal.
You know,
you've got your big goal in the future,
but what you have to do is you have to set up these little goals along the way
to get you there that are pointing in the right direction.
So your big goal is you wanted to stay in the marine corps,
be able to reenlist.
In order to be able to do that,
you had to be able to walk you gotta to be able to function.
And so you just had to fight through these little things every single day to
make progress.
And it's funny because you know the,
the way I've honestly described this before,
it was like,
it's like shooting when you're looking,
you know,
you've got your target that's far off in the distance 400 meters away.
If you stare at that thing,
your vision is going to get blurry and you'll lose track of it.
So you have to focus on the front sight.
This front side focus,
that's what you do.
And that the thing in the background,
you know it kind of fades a little bit,
but you know it's there.
And then what happens is occasionally,
and so it's the same thing with your goals,
right?
You have your longterm goal,
but that thing is so far away.
Sometimes it gets blurry and if you,
and so what you do is you focus on some little thing that's right in front of
you that you can do and then that brings you a little bit closer to the goal.
But occasionally those little things that are short term,
you're doing them day after day after day after day they,
they start to grind on you and you say,
you know what?
Forget it.
I don't even want to do this today.
And that's when you have to look up once again at your longterm goal and say,
wait a second,
I'm moving in that direction.
I'm trying to get there.
But to hear you describe these little things,
and by the way,
you're throwing them out there like it's no big deal.
Like,
oh,
I just was all right.
It went from the bed to the wheelchair to the,
to the,
to the prosthetics.
Then I went to the blind school and the next thing you know,
I'm making bird cages on bird feeders.
And like I'm,
I mean the,
the,
the small effort or the small tasks that took immense effort along the way.
But you know,
from my perspective,
what I see is you made it each and every one of those things.
A mission,
I'm going to do this,
I'm going to
do that.
Okay,
I can do that now.
Cool.
I'm gonna do this.
And these are small little progressive steps,
but you're making them and you're making them every day.
Every day you get up and you'd just walk,
walk forward.
And that's the one thing with being in the marine corps and has really helped me
out along this way is,
you know,
being organized and getting in that routine where,
you wake up each and every day,
it's like,
okay,
I'm gonna knock this out.
This is my goal for the day.
And you know,
bettering myself was one of the goals cause I knew that I couldn't get nothing
done in this life if I didn't better myself first.
And you know,
through the early days of my recovery,
getting off pain pills was one of the first things that I wanted to do as well.
And it's been 12 years since I last saw of pain pill and that's,
you know,
and it's,
uh,
I didn't,
I didn't want my life to,
you know,
revert back to pain pills and just,
I feel a little bit of pain then,
then I'm going to like go get,
take a pill.
And you know,
I replaced that with staying busy,
st active,
going to the gym,
working out and,
and it,
it really helped out a lot.
I didn't just,
you know,
if I felt like I got pain and I'm going to go give it some pain,
and that's,
uh,
and it's the one thing and it's just,
you know,
through it,
through it all I've learned along the way is like,
people told me I couldn't do something or I can't do it.
Why do you want to stay in the Marine Corps?
You make so much more money outside of the Marine Corps.
I'm like,
well,
I didn't join the Marine Corps for money,
you know?
And that's that,
that I've used that as motivation and it got me along this way and,
and um,
you know,
I just,
I pretty much just like whatever,
you know,
you think that for yourself,
but I know what my mission in life is and I kept a positive attitude and people
saw that.
And you know,
once I got back from the blind school in 2009,
I started getting out doing these events.
And the first event I actually did was something I opened my mouth to my
physical therapist and forgot all about until like two months before was the
Bataan death march in 2009 and he walked up to me and he was like,
Oh Matt,
you're going to do the Bataan death March this year,
right?
You said last year?
And I'm like,
Oh crap.
And you know,
I walked out and I did 10 miles in eight hours and that was the first,
like I was proud of doing 10 miles in eight hours.
But that was the first event,
first hike that I ever fell out of that I quit on.
So for people who don't know the Bataan death march is an event that they do out
here and it's,
it's 26 miles,
right?
It is.
And they've got to bring up,
you got to wear a rock.
Some people,
yeah,
I just wear camelback,
but they do it.
Well,
explain.
Explain what,
what the Bataan death march is.
Obviously it's to commemorate or to,
to remember the,
the folks that were actually on the real Bataan death march.
But what is the one that they do here this year actually
it was the 30th annual Bataan memorial death march in White Sands,
New Mexico.
When I did it in 2009,
they,
uh,
it's a 26.2 long or a mile long.
And then they also have a 14 mile honorary.
And um,
the,
the 26.2 miles is actually up a mountain and down a mountain.
And it's,
it's intense cause you're walking through the sands and a part of it is this
loose sand pit and it's,
uh,
you know,
it's,
it's a good test,
especially for people with prosthetics and you know,
when you're kind of endurance and see how far you can go.
And when I signed up in 2009,
I've walked 10 miles out in eight hours and I was like,
all right,
that's pretty proud.
You know,
I got hurt two years ago.
But then I like,
again,
like I quit and then at have really bugged me and I use that as motivation and
it humbled me knowing that,
you know,
I was a good runner before.
I never quit on any hikes.
Like,
I would always finish.
And then a,
it realized that,
okay,
I'm not who I am before,
so I got to learn the learn this way now,
you know,
and not everything's as easy as it used to be.
But once,
once I finished,
like I told the Lady,
I told my therapist and I was like,
once I'm done,
I'm putting my medical board and I'm going for my reenlistment package.
And,
and I was like,
all right,
10 miles in.
And that was in March of 2009 and basically August of 2009,
I got my,
you know,
my ratings back of course 100%.
And I chose to go through the ELD program extended but permanent limited duty.
And um,
that took all the way Til April,
2000 where the end of March of 2010.
And actually today,
April 1st wood bin was the day that,
uh,
I was promoted to corporal and with the battalion commander that called me when
I was in San Antonio was like,
Hey,
congratulations,
you're getting promoted to corporal.
And I was like,
sir,
is this an April fool's joke?
You know,
it's like,
and it's uh,
and but,
but uh,
on April 7th,
2010,
I re enlisted,
I raise my right hand and got a chance to stay in the Marine Corps for a few
more years.
And that was the greatest thing ever right there.
Yeah,
no,
that's,
that's the reason why I started off today reading that oath,
because for you to be doing that and the condition you were in,
having already sacrificed and saying,
you know what,
I got more to give and I'm going to give it.
And that's the one thing.
Like when I was mentioned lead by example,
one of my therapists told me as I go to therapy every day and I put my legs on,
I stand up,
I'll walk out,
you know,
just I do my own thing.
And he's like,
man,
you don't ever,
you won't see this.
Of course.
And you will never realize this,
but every day when you walk in here,
you sit down and you put your prospects on and get up and walk out.
People stare at you and people look at you.
And that's the right thing to lead by example.
You know,
it's like if you wake up each and every day and you do it the right way,
then people will follow,
you know,
and,
and uh,
I've learned now it's like from living my life,
it's just to wake up and continue doing the right thing,
then people will follow and you know,
it's,
it's something that I focus a lot on.
It's not being an a tense yelling leader,
but it's just doing it the right way.
And that's something that I've done along the way.
And of course in therapy,
if you're in the marine in,
you're an army,
go on the ground and you don't want that marine up there walking is like,
I need to beat this guy.
And then you also ended up going to college,
right?
I did.
I did hear.
What Year did you start college?
I started in 2011 at Coastal Carolina Community College in Jacksonville,
North Carolina.
What was once a re enlist it?
They asked me where I wanted to go.
I don't want to go to the wounded warrior battalion,
East Campbell Gym because I realized my,
I could help out more there.
And I got there and in 2011,
I went on a closure trip back to our rack.
And that's when I realized that I joined the Marine Corps to deploy.
And I can't deploy now,
but I could still share my story and I don't have to share my story with wearing
the uniform.
Is it the Marine Corps that takes you on the closure trip?
It was a nonprofit first foundation and um,
it's,
uh,
actually the,
the,
the episode that I went on 60 minutes air it in 2011.
So it's on Youtube,
but a nice plug.
But it's,
uh,
but,
I learned a lot about my time in the Marine Corps and,
and the one thing with being a marine is you're always a marine.
And that's a title I get to take to my grave.
And when I'm 85 years old,
I can look at my great grandkids and be like,
I served the United States Marine Corps.
And,
um,
so it's,
and during that time we were starting a family and I was getting ready to take
college classes.
So the one thing that I'm very fortunate about is everything through life.
Like it's each step,
each chapter.
It comes right after the next one.
Like I never have time to sit down and think about what's next.
And you know,
I got out in 2012 and we moved right back to Kentucky and I started taking
college classes and you know,
my brilliant,
an amazing wife,
you know,
while we're trying to figure out where we want to live.
She's like,
you've your dream school was university,
Kentucky,
so let's move back to there and you can go to school there in graduate there.
And I started taking classes there in 2014.
And May of 2017 I walked across the stage at Rupp arena and got my diploma in
Media Arts and history and,
and it's,
uh,
you know,
not only a marine for life,
but a wildcat for lie.
I felt,
I feel,
I feel a little strange being that,
you know,
the 30 year old like kid and,
partying like a 10 year old there and when the basketball team won or something
like that,
you know,
I'm the,
I'm just that old creepy dude over there now.
And not,
not the youngster anymore,
but,
but it,
it was,
um,
it was fun to go back and take college classes and everything that I learned
that I should've learned in high school.
Like I'm like loving college now.
When I spoke at a,
um,
a child development center a couple of months ago and the kids asked me,
it was like,
what?
What do you think of school?
I'm like,
you know,
it's,
I wasn't the greatest of students in high school,
but tell you what,
I loved college.
I loved going back and reading books.
I love to read now.
And,
and it,
it just expands my mind and my knowledge on things.
And it's uh,
you know,
it's good going down and sitting down with people and,
and you could share stories on different things and not just something about the
military,
but you could talk about this and this and you know,
it's uh,
it was fun.
It's your are,
I want to just kind of jump back to your workouts a little bit and I know you
post some of your workouts in,
uh,
on,
on Twitter and stuff.
Some little shots sometimes.
I know you posted one the other day.
If you put pushing a sled said were pushing down,
which means that all the way out to California legit,
uh,
do when you wake up every day,
is that the first thing you do is,
is try and get your workout in.
I tried to,
I prefer working out in the morning,
but now with traveling and you know,
catching up hours at work,
I had to do an evening workouts,
which I,
I can't,
I hate doing even work.
So I'm ready to go home,
take my legs off.
But,
but those are the,
those are the,
I work out in the evening.
I tried to get them in as much as I possibly can.
I love to work out.
And if not,
then I'll just do it at home.
I got some dumb bells and curls curls there.
And,
um,
but you know,
throughout,
throughout the day I'm like constantly on my legs walking around,
you know,
doing some cardio.
But,
you know,
I love,
I love taking shots at you.
They're Jocko on Twitter,
you know,
and that's,
uh,
um,
I think one of the tweets I actually mentioned to you,
I was like,
you do the squat and I'll do the pushing the sled and,
but uh,
you know,
it's like even through,
even through training my trainer,
it's funny because I joke with him all the time on like,
his name's Josh and I'm like,
look,
you're just here to walk me from machine to Shane.
All right.
I'll tell you what I want to work out today.
And,
and um,
like it get to the point where I'm getting bored doing pull ups,
put some chains on me.
Now I'll do some pilots with some chains on me and something like that already,
some pushups or I'll get to the bench press and do some chains on the bench
press.
And it's like just something else that challenge it and set a sticking to the
same old thing everyday thing.
And it's a,
and you know,
personal bests on the bench press couple of weeks ago at two 60.
I'm proud of that.
And then of course,
pushing the sled and,
um,
but now it's like,
you know,
I've,
I've learned doing the,
I do spartan races and marathons and I've done a marathon and I did a marathon
and I forgot what year it was,
but I didn't work out or get back on the bike for a whole year.
And after doing the next marathon,
I was so sore for like a week.
And I'll realize like if I stay active in the gym and work out,
then I'm not as sore.
And,
um,
so like,
uh,
I that
news flash,
yeah.
Stay in the gym
and it's,
uh,
so it's like a,
I'll work out as much as I possibly can because it's like,
I never know what,
what,
you know,
the organization and I do a lot of these events with like,
sometimes they'll just call me.
I'm like,
Hey,
you wanna do a spartan race in two weeks.
It's like,
oh,
sure.
You know,
and,
and you know,
through
me,
sorry,
let me start drinking some water now.
And,
but,
and you know,
it's like through this,
it's like each year I tried to find something new to do and for some weird
reason this year it's like I've got on a stationary bike because my goal is to,
in July I'm going to bike from Seattle to Portland.
It's like a 203 mile,
two day event.
And then my ultimate goal in August is the bike across Kentucky on a tandem
bike.
And,
um,
so I got on a stationary bike in January for the first time I got on any kind of
bike in 20 years.
And I'm like,
holy smokes,
this is weird.
And it's like my lip leg,
like the bud,
the nice side,
like it didn't work,
so we'll and pedal.
And so I just took it off and started peddling on my right leg.
And the most I've done was 7.5 miles in 26 minutes.
And I went to my trainer and I looked at my wife and I'm like,
this is the one thing that I feel like I'm doing normal.
You know,
I feel like I could keep up with somebody with legs.
And,
um,
so I really enjoyed that and I'm looking forward to it.
But,
um,
you know,
like last year I climbed Mount Rainier or half a half of Mount Rainier and,
um,
this year I'm going to go out and submit it hopefully in July.
So that is,
uh,
anything I can do to really like challenge myself.
And I always,
uh,
I always tell him my prosthetist and like any,
like I got the x three on my left leg,
which is like the best of the best.
And I'm like,
my goal in life is to break this leg.
It's like if I could break it,
then that's the,
that's a check in the box and
the Bataan death march,
you were back at that thing,
right.
I attack that two weeks ago and I don't know if you know what it feels like to
run into a train,
but that's what I felt like Monday afternoon.
But it was a,
the 2009 really,
like I mentioned,
it humbled me and it motivated me,
you know,
for the next 10 years.
It's like everything I'm going to do,
I'm to focus on this right here.
Like I went into the baton in 2009 and then my prosthetics wasn't as good and
or,
or advanced as they are now.
So when I went out there two weeks ago,
I knocked it out 14 miles at Dr eight miles and we,
we stepped off at six 56 and by 1120 I hit eight mile marker.
They gave me a 45 minute mile pace and I was knocked out a mile in 25 minutes.
And it was,
I don't know if it was,
uh,
my knee was hurting or just the whole fact that I'm getting ready to cross the
finish line,
but it was like I'd get a little emotional.
I'm like,
and this is really happening,
you know,
and to go out and walk this far on two prosthetics and I tell you one thing,
the models are a lot longer when you can't see,
that's for sure.
And,
but,
um,
it was,
it was fun,
you know,
and uh,
I was,
uh,
I was out of my legs for about a week,
actually this last Tuesday is the first time I put my legs on for the first
time.
So it's,
uh,
but you know,
cause you just trashed the skin.
My left leg had a couple of little red spots on it.
And so my wife,
she,
uh,
took a picture and since my process and then she become my nurse and,
but not to mention the Saturday,
I just walked 3.6,
five miles in a,
like a,
they call it,
it's a run the bluegrass in Lexington and my wife,
she sent me a text and she's like,
Hey,
I think about walking this,
you could get your wheelchair and I'll push you.
I'm like,
look,
I'm not going to get a metal sit in a wheelchair.
I'm willing to go to walk it or I'm not going to do it.
Okay.
And so we signed up for the 3.6,
five miles and we will finish that and an hour and 23 minutes.
And for some weird reason,
I think walking might be my thing this year too,
but I had to get you out and do a race with us.
Come and get it.
I've been,
I've been looking into the,
what's the,
the navy seal obstacle course.
Oh,
well you mean the one that's in Coronado,
the actual obstacle course.
Oh No,
no,
not that one.
I'm not that advanced yet.
I'm a marine.
Is it,
is it the bone of frog or bone frog?
Frog.
Yeah.
So I've been looking into that so,
well I'm sure those guys will hook you up if you want to go get after it.
I'm not big on the water and stuff.
They have like,
you know,
we'll do everything else.
Might not be a great combination if you don't like the water too much.
Cause I'm sure they put some water to that dude.
Yeah,
no.
Hey,
what was that?
What was that closure trip?
You know,
speaking about emotional,
if I'd had to be emotional going,
going to Iraq again,
it was the whole,
um,
when it was mentioned to me in 2011
11,
the only image in my mind that kept popping up is like either a Black Hawk going
down or see one 30 or something happening because it's like I walked away,
actually I was medivaced out of that country,
you know,
from,
from my injury.
So it's like I had no good,
good image of that country at all and it was nerve wracking.
It was even more nerve wracking being around like the Iraqi security forces,
you know,
they're clearing rooms and doing mount training.
And here we stand with no weapons or anything.
Like when I was in Iraq,
no Iraqis had rifles or a ks.
And so that,
that really kind of,
um,
it made me worried a lot.
But I think one of the coolest moments that that really helped me understand it
was we were meeting the Iraqi security forces and they were all walking up
shaking our hands and,
and you know,
good uniforms.
And,
um,
they had a patch and one of the guys took his patch off and put it on my flak
jacket and gave me a big hug.
And I'm like,
you know what,
this is,
this is it.
And one team,
one fight here,
you know,
and there's,
there's bad people all over this world,
but there's a lot more good people in this world too.
And,
and I think it really,
um,
it,
it made the trip as we were flying back home,
we were going over Iceland and the pilot brought back this little letter and he
gave it to my buddy and my buddy,
right at two minutes said US forces have killed Osama bin Ladin and I was like,
you know what,
that's the perfect closure to a closure trip.
Cause like we all joined the military after 2001 to go after him,
you know,
to kill him.
And,
and knowing that this happened on my closure trip,
it's like,
it,
it honestly like gave me,
it got me emotional,
I was just ready to go home,
be with my family and that,
that,
that kept it off pretty well.
And I will say when I was in a hack in 2006,
Saddam Hussein was killed.
So Saddam was saying in a psalm in loud and you know,
so it's like,
why not?
But you know what?
Like,
I got so much of that close your trip.
I learned a lot about my life and like what the next step in my life is.
And like I mentioned earlier,
like when I went back to Afghanistan in 2017 never been in Afghanistan for my
life,
but I felt like I got more out of that closure trip because going to Iraq in
2011 I was still in the Marine Corps wearing the uniform every day in
Afghanistan.
I haven't put the uniform on in five years and to put the uniform back on and go
around and speak to soldiers about my marine corps career and be around the
military again,
truly made me miss it more than anything in the world.
And you know,
the brothers that I met in the Marine Corps and in the military alone,
like they're forever going to be there.
You know,
no matter where you live at in this country,
they're always going to be there for you.
And knowing that the,
you know,
the,
the name tag across your chest,
United States of America,
that that means more to me,
the neat thing in this world.
And if,
if I was called back to serve this country again and again,
knowing the risk and what could happen to me,
then I'd go back and do it all over again.
Because these last 12 years have been truly amazing and I've done things that I
would never thought out could do.
And I've done it differently.
And like through the journaling that through the adversity and it's just,
it's inspired and motivated me to come along the way.
And you know,
and it's,
it's,
it's a,
it's a life.
I love the live and even in the dark,
but I know one day will come and then there will be light in my eyes,
you know,
and I'll be able to open my eyes and see every day.
But for right now I'm going to live my life to the fullest.
That's incredible.
Do you,
do you ever,
you know,
I'll hear from people all the time,
oh,
I don't feel like doing this today.
I don't feel like doing,
I don't want to work out today.
I don't want wanna.
I don't want to get up and do my job today.
You know?
Does that,
when you hear that kind of thing,
what are your thoughts on that?
I know for me personally,
when I've wake up and I don't feel like doing something,
then I tried it.
Or if I feel like I'm in a down mood,
then I try to keep that in in the house.
Like I don't want to go out into public because I don't want people to see that.
Like when I go out in public,
I want them to see happy Matt,
you know,
positive.
But hearing people like just,
it's hard to hear people complain about things these days,
you know?
And because you know,
I know what Araca looked like and then you know,
I was in Afghanistan and you know,
I know what happened to me and I know where I was 12 years ago and what I had to
do to overcome that.
You know?
And it's just some people just,
when they feel like they can't do it,
they just get down in the dumps and they give up.
And really it's like you got to learn to battle through those adversities.
And you know,
at the end of the day when you put your head down on the pillow and close your
eyes,
you wake up to a new day,
you know,
and a new day with new challenges.
But you've got to learn to overcome those challenges because in life it's a
mountain.
You're going to continue to climb up a mountain and it's never going to flatten
out.
You're constantly gonna go over any obstacles.
Boulder's whatever's in your way.
And the only way to go over is the climate.
It's not to find the easy way around or turn around and quit,
you know?
And you got to learn to just overcome things and,
and honestly,
never give up,
never quit.
Okay.
Clearly you represent that to the fullest.
So what are you doing right now in terms,
I know you got a job.
What's that?
What's that all about?
So,
um,
it's funny how I got this job because my last year at UK I was,
I had to go for an internship and the internship,
the internship that I was going for was at a,
where I go hunting at.
And I was like,
okay,
we'll do that.
But then like,
people kept tagging me on Facebook about this wounded warrior fellowship
position that was opening up and he was like,
Matt,
you should try this out.
And I contacted one of my friends and he was like,
Hey,
just show up at our office on this date and you could intern with us.
And then we'll talk about the position.
And I show up on the first day at our office and everybody's like,
who are you?
I'm like,
and then he ended up getting kind of in trouble for this,
but,
but it was,
uh,
so I,
you know,
I interned there and then went to the interview in June and basically was hired
on the spot.
And I've been working with the congressional office for two years doing veterans
outreach.
Um,
you know,
we do some case work with veterans,
but truly just getting out in the district and being around veterans and kind of
letting them know what kind of legislative,
um,
to bills are out there that could affect them both positive and negatively.
I mean,
there's so much out there that they need to know about.
And it's been truly a joy,
you know,
getting to work with a lot of Vietnam veterans and um,
these are some of the happiest guys that I've ever met in my life for what they
had to go through and you know,
and,
and just hearing them walk up to me and be like,
cause I've had them come just to our office in tears just to like to shake my
hand or get a hug from me and stuff like that.
Going through,
you know,
heart problems or whatever.
And they're like,
you know what,
just being here and seeing you and what you've gone through that it motivates me
to continue doing what I'm doing.
Cause you're inspiring me.
And it brings tears to my eyes because it's like,
you know,
as a veteran,
veterans serving veterans,
we need to look out for our own.
It doesn't matter if it's a job or not,
but you know,
the suicide rate right now is sad.
And you know,
we got to learn to reach out and be with each other because we're the only ones
that trust and the only ones that will open up to each other.
And that's the one thing that I've really,
you know,
I've tried at first,
which is very hard to keep my personal life from a work side.
But you know,
these,
it's when you sat down and he talked to a veteran and you share what you've went
through and,
and they share what they went through and you kind of come together and you talk
about things and,
you know,
at the end of the day that you're helping them out just as much as they're
helping you out.
It truly means the world.
And it's,
it knows that,
you know,
veterans serving veterans,
we need stick together.
There's no doubt.
And you're doing all of that and you're also raising three kids,
three kids,
three amazing kids actually.
And,
uh,
you know,
my wife and I were,
uh,
April 7th will be our seventh wedding anniversary.
So we're,
uh,
but you know,
through it all,
the one thing that if I could teach anybody in life,
it's teaching those kids that,
you know,
challenges are going to come,
but you got to find a way.
Life is an easy,
life's hard.
And,
and if they could look at me and look at what I've gone through and what I
continue to do today,
and use that as motivation to,
you know,
better themselves and better their lives and understand that,
yes,
I might have failed this test,
but you know what,
I'm going to go home and I want to get in a book and I want to,
I'm going to get an a on this next one.
Then that's all that matters.
And,
you know,
talk about them a little bit is Nolan who's 15,
he'll turn 60 in a couple of weeks.
A couple of years ago,
we had a birthday party and,
and um,
there was this girl in his class or in his school that had no arms and no legs
and he didn't know her,
but he went up to her and gave her a birthday.
Um,
uh,
he invited her to his birthday and it like he come home and told me and Amanda
that and that truly brought tears to our eyes because it's like they get it,
you know,
when I was their age,
if I saw a kid that was in,
you know,
a special ed class,
I didn't walk up and try to talk to him.
You know,
I felt like they were different than me and I stayed away from that.
But you know,
no one that he walked up to a girl with no arms and no legs and was,
you know,
invited her to his birthday party,
truly brought tears to our eyes because it's like,
again,
he gets it.
He's growing up.
He's a man right now,
you know,
and Emma,
she is just as mature as she is.
So helpful and caring and compassionate.
And Layla is the same thing.
You know,
she's seven years old right now,
but it's the cutest thing in the world is the ear,
her get around her friends and tell her stories about how I got hurt.
You know,
somehow the bad guys blew my legs off and killed me and you,
she told her teacher that.
And I can only imagine where teacher thought when I walked in the classroom,
you know,
but when it's just,
they're always there if I need them,
they're there to help out and you know,
to,
to my wife,
I mean she's truly amazing.
She has a job herself,
but she stops everything she can to get me to work me to an event and me to a
speaking engagement to wherever get the three kids to wherever they need to go.
Our two girls are in horseback riding lessons right now and still she finds time
to work out twice a day.
Actually.
She,
uh,
you know,
nine to nine to two job and,
and it's,
you know,
she's does dinner,
laundry,
everything.
And then she still crawls in bed by eight o'clock at night.
I mean,
you know,
if there's a motivation in my life and there's a true hero for me to look up to,
it's her because she is truly amazing and I couldn't ask for a better wife and a
better friend,
best friend,
role model mentor and you know,
if there's any award out there to give to her then I mean I would,
I would be up for it and I'd be the first one to sign onto it.
Awesome.
It sounds like you,
uh,
sounds like you found that the perfect,
the perfect girl for you.
She is in,
you know,
throughout all of this.
It's the hardest thing is to,
to sit back and like appreciate it.
And the one thing that I truly don't like,
I always cross if I cross the finish line,
always look to see what's next.
I don't sit back and enjoy it.
And she's there to kind of like to almost honestly humble me a little bit and to
sit back and let me remember what I went through to get to where I am today.
And without her,
I don't know if I could live this life right now.
And you know,
it's always talk about,
it's um,
you know,
it's a tough road.
You know,
I'm,
I am blind.
I have bad days and some days I don't want to wake up and go on,
but I tell you every day,
you know,
or every night I pray that maybe one day I'll wake up and I'll be able to see my
wife and my kids.
And when I wake up,
I still look at darkness and then I go through my morning routine and I still
grab my prosthetic legs and I put them on.
So I'm constantly reminded of January 18th,
2007.
And I use that motivation to go on and love my family and love my kids and go
out and do these extraordinary things because I'm never going to let that guy
who pushed that button and blew me up to feed me,
even though I don't know where he's at right now,
he's never going to get the sense of relief that he defeated me that day.
And you know,
while I'm going through these bad moments,
I mean,
nothing soothes the soul and makes the heart feel so much better than here.
And your seven year old daughter walk into you and say,
Hey Daddy,
I love you.
All right man.
Um,
I don't even know if I have anything else to say after that,
man.
That's just a that's awesome.
Um,
yeah man,
I think we're good.
Think we're good.
I think,
I think that's a good place to stop a man.
It's just awesome to,
uh,
sit here and talk to you and hear your story.
Um,
I know echoes got a couple of things to cover.
What do you got eco sure thing.
It,
I only think about this too.
Like,
you know how um,
Matt you're saying like you can choose to kind of go down two paths,
right?
So,
and it,
this picture starts to get a kind of painted in my head when I hear like these
cool stories.
So like,
I don't know,
you don't like,
if you're a,
it's going to be a bad analogy.
Bear with,
we all know you're good at,
you know,
we all know you're good at bad analogy.
So let's say you're trying to,
I dunno,
like let's say you have an ant problem,
right?
You mean like little bugs?
Yes.
Okay.
Yeah,
my aunt.
Okay,
so let's say you have an ad problem,
right?
So it's,
it's,
it,
it's you against the answer,
right?
So let's say you say,
okay,
I'm going to set up these traps for the list.
Let's say mice
traps the mousetrap.
Let's say you put a mouse trap out for a year.
A mouse problem.
All right?
And then,
uh,
you know,
someone or a mouse comes and gets caught in the trap.
You don't kill it though.
You were trying to kill the all the mix,
right?
You don't kill the mouse,
the mouse,
like somehow you mess it up though,
but the mouse gets away.
So not only did you not kill the,
and then the mouse now goes,
recovers and now teaches all other mice how to get past mouse traps.
Okay.
Your mousetrap kind of worked against you.
So like,
just like when Matt said,
Oh yeah,
that guy who pressed the button to,
to,
you know,
to blow up the bomb.
Yeah,
he hit me.
He did the opposite of what he was trying to do.
See what I'm saying?
Oh,
I see what you're saying.
It's actually a good analogy.
Okay.
Credit for that one.
Not saying that Matt is a mouse.
I'm not saying that,
but I'm just saying,
you know,
come separately each as the,
the will and fortitude and the lessons.
Yeah,
most important.
So the guy who made the bomb kind of screwed himself,
you know what I mean?
In this big way.
And it's,
it's,
you know,
kind of,
it's hard to say that you just called me a mouse,
but it,
you know,
it's like at the end of the day it's like,
I look back at all altogether just being a marine,
you know,
and never quit,
never quit on my brothers and never quitting on the situation it's given to me.
And I'll use the amputation and the blondness and all this stuff stacked against
me as motivation,
you know?
And every now and then it like stairs,
it's ugly head.
But you know,
thankfully for my wife,
my family and you know,
the mindset and mentality that I have right now and the friends that I've
surrounded myself with that,
you know,
I kind of push it back and kick its butt if sir.
Indeed speaking of kicking butt,
yes.
What do you got for us?
Our path mats on the path he's been on the past.
Have you ever tried to,
to yet,
if you could teach a blind guy with no legs Jujitsu,
then I'm all for it.
Well,
I've definitely taught blind guys do Jitsu and I was definitely taught guys with
no legs Jujitsu.
Let's put them together.
And I guess what,
I think you might find it easier than the Bataan death march.
Oh yeah,
no man,
you can definitely,
you can train a Jujitsu all day long.
Um,
Ryan job,
you know,
one of my guys who was blinded to,
uh,
I trained with him and he wrestled two in high school,
so he had some background.
But yeah,
you can,
there's people that come competitively.
Um,
yeah that compete with,
with no vision and the no legs thing while that you just learned Jiu Jitsu is
adaptable.
Yeah.
Uh,
so you can,
you can adapt it as you as you are quite good at it.
Well,
you know my hashtag no legs,
low vision,
no problem.
There you go out there,
I'll do it.
[inaudible] some Jujitsu training we used to do they,
you know,
they say close your eyes and with your training you can start back to back
closer.
The thing is once you have contact with a day.
Yup.
Like being able to see him isn't that much of an advantage sometimes close my
eyes.
So yeah.
The thing with grappling is you learn well,
you learn to know what the other person is doing by feel and you don't really
need because you can't see what are you going to see anyways?
You see like their armpit
there.
Yeah.
So you don't get to see much anyway.
The friend I was telling you about that that shrapnel in his leg and all rack I,
well I got a video of him and I are grappling and it's hard cause like I could
put them in a headlock but my legs,
I can't do much with that.
But they have a video of me like tapping him out cause he's like Bruh he bright
red.
It was like wow,
now a million people are going to want to see that video.
Yeah.
It's a funny video.
I mean that's the part you kind of miss is like the look of defeat on,
you know,
on his face or whatever.
But you have to match to that part.
Oh I'll let him know and the less the rest of the day and then also sent the
picture to everybody that we started with.
So
it's out there so I'll,
so you'll roll right into it.
Plus you're a good athlete.
Tennis skills.
My wife's always going to love that you said that.
But yes,
on the path.
Very good.
You just do.
So when you're doing Jujitsu on this path that we're all on,
by the way,
you don't want to be,
if you do G,
which I recommend by,
or this is where you get your gaze@originmain.com.
Gee,
rash guard,
there's other stuff on there.
But as far as [inaudible] go,
that's where you get them all made in America by the way,
Jocko.
Yeah,
that's the big thing.
So little town up in Maine and all the industry was taken away from this town.
And um,
we're bringing it back.
We've got a factory up there.
We got,
I think we've got,
well we've got a bunch of people working in the factory and they're all
craftsmen,
craftsmen and craftswomen
Crespi cause a lot of them are female.
Um,
and you know,
they're,
they're making all this stuff.
So it's great to see that we're trying to make America make again.
Did you just is,
I just know I shot that to Pete,
my brother Pete.
I was like,
Hey,
we're gonna make America make again.
He did it because that's what we're trying to do.
We're trying to make America make stuff happening.
I mean we got what Dan [inaudible],
American denim.
Yeah.
Not the kind that's the plans for the future,
which is good by the way.
The plans for the future.
Good future pilots.
But that's not a future plan.
We like to seed your parents,
but we really like actual this is happening production.
Yeah.
I think about it.
American jeans or ma or created in America,
created here,
invented here and all of a sudden they're getting made overseas and these and
there's no Americans that are making me anymore.
Well there are now,
there are now in a factory in Farmington,
Maine.
That's what we're doing.
Yes.
Origin main.com.
Go there.
Geek rash guards,
denim joggers go install stuff and some boy up.
So I'm bad.
Amen.
I twisted my knee out doing Jujitsu.
Like the kind that popped up popped back hands.
They do that.
They're skinny.
Yes,
but they're loose to shamelessly James.
Actually,
my needs are so low.
I can with the needs.
I know,
but my knees are so loose that I um,
I like sprained it one time.
So I went to the orthopedic surgeon,
you know,
check it out.
He was like,
Oh yeah,
you blew your ACL.
That was like,
since I really did blow my ACL 10 to 12 to 15 years earlier,
my other side,
I knew that my knees were loose because the guy,
the doctor at that time,
it was like,
hey,
you have real like I dunno,
long ligaments.
I don't know.
See,
I know that sounds funny,
like long ligaments.
I know,
but that's what he said.
Anyway,
so I was like,
Hey,
I'm sure he just didn't say you had.
Anyway.
He says,
um,
yeah you have loose like ligaments or whatever.
Um,
but this is how you know this one is blown out and this one is not.
Because when you pull it the one that's not blown out,
Bowman has a tight like chord at the end of it where it just stops.
Anyways.
So my current orthopedic surgeon and I told him that he was like,
okay,
that's good that you told me that.
So he tries the other one,
I'm like,
he's like,
oh yeah,
they're the same.
So it's probably not blown out.
But Hey,
Mri.
Anyway,
back to my story.
So they pop out.
Right.
That's their thing.
When I twist them wrong,
they'll pop out.
Sometimes it'll pop out so much that it'll like kind of make the cartilage swell
on the outside.
Okay.
So it takes a few days.
So like until I can bend them all away and I'm pretty flexible by the way on the
less,
once I did that double dose joint warfare and Krill oil for dates back in again.
That's,
that's quick.
That's quick for us.
We get them a milk.
Yes.
Additional protein.
Yup.
We've got the discipline go and the discipline and we've got the warrior kid
milk.
I've got to get you some warrior kid.
Moca for your kids.
Matt.
Toughen them up.
So what it is is it's like,
do your kids like chocolate milk?
They do.
Do they like,
do you have,
have strawberry chocolate?
Well what does that smell?
Strawberry milk.
Do you ever have that one?
My Layla seven year old.
She loves strawberry milk.
Okay.
So unfortunately the milk,
the strawberry milk that you have to give your kids is horrible for him even
though it tastes delicious,
I guess.
Well,
there's like some protein in it,
right?
There's some nutritional value because it doesn't have some protein cause
there's milk in it,
but you're also laid running them with sugar,
which is not good for him.
So yeah,
and it's addictive.
So we solved this problem and we made warrior kid milk.
It tastes delicious.
I'm telling you it tastes like,
I don't know if I'm supposed to say this,
but it tastes like the Nestle's Quik strawberry milk.
You know what I'm talking about?
Yeah.
It tastes like it's that good.
I'm not kidding.
Layla will be all over this stuff.
She will be stoked if they like strawberry.
Yeah,
really good.
So we'll get you some of that.
And anyone else out there that wants to raise a warrior,
kids that doesn't want to give your kid a bunch of actual poison sugar.
Actual poison.
Yeah.
And here's the thing about sugar too and sure,
I ran a little thing about this,
but I have noticed this.
So you know how like,
um,
when you're there,
like little babies or whatever,
you'll give them like,
I dunno,
all kinds of stuff and let's say you give him formula,
but the form is kind of sweet in,
right?
So it's like it's sweet in so they'll like it so they'll eat it.
Oh yeah.
But if you don't give them any sweet stuff,
even when they grow up,
they'll like,
they'll only eat normal stuff like unsweetened stuff,
you know.
So I'll use myself as a small example when I was young,
my parent,
you know,
the,
the like the fruit,
not fruit punch,
but like a orange juice concentrate.
When you make orange juice,
you put orange juice concert and then you get a water.
Yes,
yes.
What it all is.
But how you do it is you go,
um,
it's like a 12 ounce concentrate.
We'll say,
we'll say,
I think it's 12 ounces,
but the concentrated,
and then you feel that same 12 ounce container that the concentration was in
with water four times.
Right?
Little did I know it was really three times.
That's how much you're supposed to,
that's the recommended.
But my mom always did the four times.
She was trying to save money too.
Oh yeah,
yeah.
I'm sure that was part of it.
Well,
she was like six event.
None the less I was used to it,
I was totally used to it.
So then later on when I found out in high school,
by the way that it was really a three,
I was like,
Bro,
I can't do the three.
It's way too sweet.
Yeah.
Your mom seem sane,
saved money and made you more healthy.
The right path.
Yeah.
See,
I'll think about that.
And when you think about that,
think about this.
Jocko has a store,
it's called chocolate store.
So when you're on the path you want to represent while being on the path,
that's where you go.
You can get your tee shirts,
discipline equals freedom.
Good.
Good shirt.
Oh,
the new one on there.
The new good shirt with less simple,
less of my head on it.
It is weird,
especially after a while when you know,
you look in the mirror and it's like,
good.
Yeah.
Get the message.
But you got to see chocolates face or whatever.
And you know,
sometimes you're not in the mood for that.
You just get the other one.
Did you show your tee tee shirts anywhere?
Math there on my website.
And uh,
we're,
we're in the process getting right now.
He's
got the cotton shirts,
but we're working on a workout shirts as well.
And um,
but yet,
and that's Matthew bradford.com.
Matthew Dash breath myself,
Matthew Dash at Bradford.
Yeah,
there's there on there as well.
And um,
you can also go on there and request speaking engagements as well and look me,
but yeah.
But yeah,
the shirts are there and Hashtag on the front of them.
And the Hashtag on the front has no vision,
no legs,
no problem,
no vision,
no problem.
Going to prioritize.
It's a different,
it's,
it's hilarious hearing people,
um,
just go after the Hashtag.
It's like no sight,
no legs and no vacation,
no eyes.
It's like,
first of all,
I've got one at the prosthetic but,
but uh,
yeah,
it's uh,
it's,
you know,
that's something I come up with like a couple of years ago like doing an event
and it's like,
you know what,
it just kind of stuck.
And next thing you know,
here we go.
No legs,
no vision,
no problem.
And those uh,
the workout shirts who talking about what do you,
um,
what like dry fit kind of situation and what Kelly could dry fit.
But then also the discipline equals freedom tee shirt.
The Wa the material y'all use.
Now the really liked that material cause I feel like when I work out a get good
numbers and I've got to discipline equals freedom tee shirt on.
Oh yeah,
you were on placebo.
You know,
it's one of those things,
right?
It's like,
what do you call it?
Let me ask you this.
If the placebo well is works,
is it really a placebo because that's,
you know,
made that later.
I don't want
Matzo vacations.
We went to get somebody else in here for that one.
Echo is going to start telling the story about like Koolaid or something.
How much water goes,
maybe.
Maybe.
Anyway,
you want to represent on the path Jocko,
store.com if you see something you like,
get something.
How's this?
Yes.
Lightweight hoodies.
Oh,
they're in.
I know.
They're in,
they're up.
They're representative of quality.
Little Stash.
A fash.
Oh,
I'm going to say,
see Matt,
you're probably down.
So he's wearing situation,
right?
Living in Kentucky.
Yeah,
exactly right.
More often.
You're going to need that in Kentucky,
but it's kind of my main,
you're not going to need that lightweight hoodie.
All right,
well I'm going to the immersion camp.
I'm bring one.
I'm going to wear one.
How about that?
Emerging camp.
Merging immersion.
Immersion camp.
The origin immersion camp.
We haven't talked about that because it's almost sold out.
Go to [inaudible] dot com if you want to go to that Jujitsu camp.
If you want to come to that,
Matt,
let me know.
When am I going to get,
it's an August.
It's uh,
it's fun.
We do Jujitsu 24 hours a day.
We did it.
We rocked it.
It was a good time.
Jocko white tea,
you can get that as well.
If you can't dead lift eight pounds,
you might want to order to quickly because if you drink Jocko white tea,
there's a 100% scientific guarantee that you'll be able to dead lift a minimum
of 8,000 pounds.
Some people are coming in higher than that,
which is fine.
Not a placebo.
No,
no,
no.
It's 100% uh,
looking back,
you can subscribe to this podcast because Echo thinks that you've listened to
171 podcast and maybe you haven't hit subscribe yet.
That's an accurate thing and unfortunately for me,
go echo is proven right because then a bunch of people,
when I made fun of you for that,
a bunch of people rallied to your defense.
There's a whole little group that will rally to your different because they have
a good point sometimes,
not all the time.
Come on a subscriber.
Also,
don't forget about the warrior kid podcast.
We just released a couple more episodes,
stories from Uncle Jake.
I love those stories.
I'm going to publish a book with those stories,
by the way.
A good idea.
Yeah,
I know.
It's a big shocker.
Don't forget to wear your kids.
So from Irish oats,
coke's ranch,
actually it's not for kids.
It's so made by a kid,
but it's not for kids.
It's for humans in general that need to stay clean.
Yes.
Also,
Youtube,
if you are interested in the video version of this podcast,
you want to see what Matt looks like?
Yeah.
Boy.
See what chocolate looks like
and uh,
yeah,
I was explaining to Matt.
I'll explain to everyone.
As everyone knows,
echo does not sound like he looks like,
you know,
we all know that echo sounds just,
I'm just going to say it.
Echo sound skinny and weak.
Thank you.
I don't mean that in a bad way.
Hey,
no offense,
but echo sounds.
My kids always make fun of that.
Hey,
no offense,
but I'm going to say something.
So I was explaining to Matt,
I'm like,
listen bro,
most people when they see echo and they meet him,
they go,
okay,
cool.
He's not really,
they think to themselves,
oh,
he's not.
He's going to look like the way he sounds.
Yeah.
So I had to say Matt,
I know you can't see echo,
but he doesn't look the way he sounds.
Matt was like,
okay,
cool.
Thanks.
Cause otherwise,
no,
he's,
you know,
he might've said something like,
maybe if you're trying to put on weight,
like maybe echo needs to your voice.
Sounds like you maybe need to do some squats.
When I was in the hospital,
I had like a color that every time I would make fun of somebody,
then they would be in the room and I didn't know that.
Then they'd be like blue,
blue,
blue.
It's like getting my mind off of like what I was going to say.
Like,
oh,
okay.
Why you say color right now?
Oh,
that's good.
Yeah.
That is good.
Actually.
Youtube videos,
there's also echos enhanced youtube video.
Just the one up today.
Yup.
I should technically be quiet yesterday,
Monday,
Monday.
Those are good.
Uh,
checkout side,
canvas.com.
That's a little company.
But my brother,
Dakota Meyer,
he's making a cool things to hang on your wall of highest quality made in
America.
He made one that says good.
Yeah.
If that's a message that you,
that resonates with,
you can do that.
Uh,
we just got one that says discipline equals freedom.
And by the way,
I didn't really know this until the other day,
and I hate to even do this because,
uh,
Dakota might get mad at me,
but he kinda takes requests.
So if you heard something on this podcast and you said to yourself,
Dang,
when,
when Matt Bradford said this,
when Matt Bradford said,
just walk.
I mean,
can that not become,
that can be,
that's like something that you'd kind of want to put on your wall,
right?
Just walk.
So if there's something like that,
hit up to code on Twitter and say,
Hey Dakota,
wouldn't it be cool if there was a,
uh,
a canvas that said,
just walk?
He's can,
you might have to put like a request like
this to filter that one out.
It's true that there's some good stuff on there.
I went through it and was like looking at it.
There's good men and I'm not really an artsy guy as far as hanging art on the
wall.
You ever been in a hotel?
It has like a picture of like a cat,
you know,
and I see what they're doing.
They trying to make you feel cozy,
but it's like probably this is a random picture of it and this thing and I don't
know.
But yeah,
you get that,
that good one that we have that he has on.
Okay.
I can kind of get down with this.
Even just the looks alone for sure.
And then you've got another layer,
the good aesthetically pleasing and there's layers and layers.
Exactly right.
We've been talking about layers in quite some time.
Use the layer talk you did,
but you know payments you probably my fault.
Also psychological warfare,
if you didn't know what that is,
it's an album with tracks of Jocko getting you,
getting us,
getting all of us through our moments of weakness,
whatever they may be.
So checked out that one that's on like an Amazon and Pete three spot where you
get mp3s,
you understand iTunes,
all that stuff.
That's where you get,
it's really good also on it.
So if you're expanding your home gym still,
which we all are,
that's an ongoing thing.
I understand.
Get your kettle bells rings.
What else?
These mesas and clubs really good for your creative type workouts unless you,
unless you want to keep up boring work.
I like Jocko.
I mean that's,
it's up to you.
Whatever your workouts that you'd like to do the same thing.
Do you varied up all the time.
I got things I like going back to like,
I love doing bench press and pull ups and dips,
but I do like change it up every now and then.
But you were talking big time about the chains.
That's Kinda,
it's Kinda like legit isn't it?
It's kind of dope.
Like looking to when,
when like while you're working out with them,
but what that does,
it offers this kind of offsetting like weight to you and to what you're doing
and it's,
yeah,
it's good.
Especially when you change.
Would you do my pull ups to,
they're hard,
but yeah,
I'd love,
love making them our workouts even harder than it really is.
Yeah.
That's all right.
You go wait,
the weight liquor on Rob Jones says boom.
But yeah,
that's where you go on it.com actually,
you know what here,
how's this?
The perfect mix.
Morning mix or pre workout mix like before Jujitsu be so on.
It has these,
they're minerals or electrolyte minerals mix that two scoops of discipline water
and if you know I put a five hour energy every once in a while I want,
I want,
I like a boost or whatever,
but all you need those minerals,
the discipline water and Oh that's when you take like your Krill oil and all
that stuff.
Boom.
Perfect mix.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Trey,
it Ellen and guy,
I got a bunch of books to Mike in the dragons.
I got these books where I brought these up for your kids to Matt,
Mike in the dragons,
little kid's book lessons for everyone way the warrior kid and Mark's mission.
Those are for like kids that want to be on the path and there's a new one coming
out.
It's called a where there's a will.
Dot Dot,
dot.
That's what it's called.
Discipline equals freedom field manual.
If you want the audio of that.
It's also on Amazon,
Google play,
iTunes,
MP,
three platforms,
extreme ownership.
First Book I wrote with my brother Leif Babin followup to that is the dichotomy
of leadership.
We've got echelon front,
which is leadership consultancy and what we do is work with businesses to solve
problems through leadership.
Go to Asheville on front.com for details.
We've got the muster coming up
May 23rd and 24th in Chicago,
September 19th and 20th in Denver and December 4th and fifth and Sydney.
You came to the monster mash.
I did last year.
And um,
Washington DC.
I actually like it.
I loved it.
I loved going there and thank you and life were inviting me to join you all.
It was awesome to have you there.
Did you relate or did you recognize the leadership lessons?
It's amazing.
Like,
like,
cause you don't think about it too much,
but you know,
it's,
it's different terminology but it all means the same.
And I love how like prioritize and execute and all this stuff,
you know,
going back to the military side of it and it kind of keeps you back in the fight
a little bit.
And so I do go back to work and like,
all right,
this is how you should lead.
You know?
And it's weird too.
I,
I was,
um,
I always think about leadership.
It's always in my head and I always think about military stuff.
And actually I was listening to you talk about getting blown up and you were
talking about how you guys had good dispersion.
And what that means is you're separate from each other.
That way if something blows up or you get hit with a mortar machine and machine
gun fire,
if everyone's too close together,
then you get multiple wounded.
So you have to,
you have to have spacing.
Now
obviously there's a dichotomy because if you have too much spacing,
then you can't see each other.
You can't help each other,
you can't get to each other and you can't communicate with each other.
So there's a dichotomy,
but we used to use this real simple corrective statement and it's real simple.
Don't bunch up,
don't bunch up,
don't bunch up.
Like if you see guys patrolling and they like one guy hits a little bit of an
obstacle and so it takes them a couple extra seconds to get over.
You fast forward that times eight guys and all of a sudden there's five guys
sitting on this obstacle.
They're trying to get through it,
I guess where the enemy puts a landmine,
they put it by that obstacle because they know you're going to get punched up,
you're in a gunfight and you see there's a little piece of cover or sometimes
there's not even covered,
but everyone just,
you get the instincts that if we're closer,
we're for safety and so I would,
when I was running training,
always be saying,
don't bunch up.
Don't bunch up.
Now how does that apply to leadership?
I can x.
It hit me the other day as I was working out.
As a matter of fact,
don't bond.
Jump on leadership.
What does that mean?
That means if you're leading echo,
I need to let you lead.
I don't need to come in there and lead to,
I don't need to get right up and bunch up on you.
So when someone steps up and takes leadership,
don't bunch up.
Let him give him some space,
let him move and follow them.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
So these things that I learned in the military that Matt learned in the
military,
when you,
when you look at them from a leadership perspective outside the military,
they still apply.
So if you want to learn about some of that stuff,
come to the monster,
um,
extreme ownership.com for details f online.
Maybe you can't come to the muster.
Maybe you're too busy,
maybe you don't have that much money,
right?
And maybe you can't get the time off.
Maybe you can't travel that far.
There's a bunch of reasons and we know that and we don't like that.
So what,
what we did is we made ETF online.
It is online interactive leadership training.
It's,
it's me and the rest of the echelon front team showing you,
teaching you about the principles of leadership that we learned in combat and
it's available right now.
If you want to go check it out,
f online.com and finally we've got f Overwatch,
which is us connecting leaders from the military,
from special operations,
from combat aviation,
and we're connecting them with companies in the civilian sector that need
leaders.
And this is one thing I've started to say is when people,
people always ask,
well,
I want to hire the right person.
How do I do it?
Hire the leader.
You're going to want to hire somebody that has experience as a leader.
Just because someone is good at some technical thing doesn't mean that they're
going to be good at leadership.
It doesn't work that way.
So you,
it's better to hire somebody that has leadership capability rather than anti.
And then you take that person that has leadership capability and you teach them
what they need to know about the industry that you're in.
So you could have somebody that was in the the special forces and you say,
Oh,
I'm going to hire him to run this communications sales group.
He doesn't know anything about communication sales group.
I'll tell you what though.
You give him like a month and a half digging in deep and you'll learn
everything.
He's got to know anything to apply the leadership things that he knows from his
military service into that position and he's gonna win.
He's gonna make it happen.
What I realized that it's not to be confused with boss like Leah,
when you say people leadership experiences,
for sure.
They won't roll in and be like,
I'm the boss now since I was putting the special forces it and you know it's not
that because they're humble because we're only bringing people in through e,
f,
F,
Overwatch.
We're only bringing people in that understand the principles that we talk about
an extreme ownership,
which none of that has to do with being a boss.
Yeah.
I have a thing where I had no,
my wife often I can understand.
Yes.
One of the most annoying things that I can do to her is I'll act like I'm not
listening to anyone.
No one can have any influence on me whatsoever.
And so she had some conference thing that I was supposed to go to and she's
sending me these,
you know,
she's sending me like,
Hey,
we're supposed to be there at six o'clock.
I'm like,
I'll show up when I want to.
And then my little daughter,
she always takes my wife's side cause she hasn't quite figured out my sense of
humor yet.
And so my daughter was like,
dad,
you need to do what mom says you need to go,
wouldn't you don't?
She said six o'clock.
And I was like,
they're not the boss of me.
So my little daughter was all mad at me for a little while and then she realized
I was joking.
Now she goes,
dad's not serious.
Dad's not sir.
He's kidding.
I now I've gone too far where,
you know,
like clean your room.
She's like,
Oh,
you're just kidding.
Not Jokes,
jokes on you.
Um,
so a,
if you want to hang around with us a little bit more,
you can find all of us virtually on the interwebs.
So Matt is,
you're already here is website Matthew Dash or Matthew Hyphen Bradford,
I think that's right.
Matthew.
Oh and there's also two teas.
Is that a thing?
Is there are two ways to spell Matthew or am I just dumb?
Is it always have two tease?
That's the common way
I won't,
I won't emphasize it.
I thought I had to emphasize that there was two t's in there.
So Matthew Hyphen bradford.com is where you can check out Matt for tee shirts
for booking him as a speaker for seeing what he's up to.
He's also bionic.
Matt five number five.
Bionic spelled wrong with the kid with a k.
I wanted to be young and hip,
you know for sure that screams young and hip for sure.
I'm getting up there in age.
I got to keep you on know
and maths post posting all if you,
if you want to,
if you're feeling sorry for yourself at all.
Checkout in and follow bionic spelled with a K.
Matt.
Number five was the number five four.
That was my football number.
If you want to take about a graduate high school in no five so [inaudible] is
right there and there's also a,
I do.
My wife
created it here recently to a new Facebook public page.
No legs,
no vision,
no problem too.
We've been kind of posting stuff on what we're doing and also kind of um,
you know,
amputees and stuff.
Also since you're young and hip,
you also have your gram,
your Instagram.
Don't forget about your Instagram.
Well the funny thing with that is peep.
Amanda was like,
Oh,
if you want get your name out there,
you need to,
Instagram comes like I'm blind.
I don't need to look at pictures.
But she was like,
she was like,
okay,
well I'll run your Instagram council when people yell at me.
And I was like,
how come you don't follow you on Instagram?
I was like,
we need to go talk to my wife on that one there.
So here's what you need to do.
The next 10 posts you put on Instagram,
all black,
all black and be like,
Hey,
what up Matt Bradford here,
can you see what I'm talking about?
That's what I thought.
Look at this beautiful view of the ocean right here in California.
Does it look nice?
Hey,
get off your ass and go do something.
Oh,
I'm back in Kentucky.
Look it's,
it's the fall.
It's a springtime.
Here comes the green grass.
This is what it looks like to me.
Okay,
now get a grip on reality.
Get out there and live your lives.
So you got to do that.
I'll talk to Amanda.
Hopefully I can get her on board with the program.
She'll be all for that one.
That'd be awesome.
We'll make it go viral.
Just learn that expression.
Which part?
The larabar the viral like make it go viral.
Okay.
And then that for your,
for your,
for your Instagram page is m underscore Bradford underscore USM.
See,
I'm glad you got that down cause oh I wrote it down because when I found it I
was like cool,
I'm going to put out the word and then I'm going to tell you to post a bunch of
black pictures and then on dat and so the public will is the public Facebook.
Again,
it's just no legs,
no vision,
no problem.
Awesome.
And
of course on all those platforms,
echo is an echo.
Charles and I am at Jockowillink Echo.
You got anything else?
No Sir.
Thank you Matt.
Great to meet you.
Thank you so much.
That goes nice meeting you too.
Andy,
any closing thoughts?
Matt?
I just really appreciate Jocko you all having me on your podcast and you know
the,
the friendship that we started last May.
I look forward to it continuing in the feature and stuff.
And you know,
for everybody out there listening,
you know when,
when life gets tough,
just remember that one day at a time and you put your head down and close your
eyes and the next day we'll,
we'll be over or the old day we'll be over in the new day will be there.
So just push on better yourself,
go to the gym,
workout,
love life and enjoy everything that we have offer here in the United States.
Awesome man.
And uh,
thanks to everyone that has served in is serving in our military and I started
off this podcast by reading the oath that you all swore to defend us.
So thank you all out there in our military for taking and keeping that oath.
And obviously Matt,
thank you so much for taking that oath per taking that oath twice for keeping
that oath despite everything that had been put in front of you.
Thank you for your service and your sacrifice and thanks for coming to talk to
us.
Also,
police and law enforcement and firefighters.
Paramedics,
EMT is correctional officer's border patrol.
First responders and that includes dispatchers that are staying calm on the
phone,
on the radio to get people the help that they need when they need it.
Thanks to all of you for protecting us as well.
We owe you all a debt of gratitude.
And to everyone else that's listening,
I'm going to take a quote from Matt Bradford's Twitter.
Yeah.
And it says this,
to walk this earth blind is not the same as having no vision to walk by faith
unchanged by the hand dealt is to live life as a visionary and to love life as
humans were meant.
Seek never settle.
Inspire,
never complain.
Rise.
Never stay down,
no legs,
no vision,
no problem.
And let's face it,
if Matt Bradford can do what he does,
if he can keep pushing and keep driving and keep finding new missions and
successfully executing those missions.
If he can wake up every day and say no legs,
no vision,
no problem.
If he can have the vision he has,
yeah.
And the heart that he has
been,
all of us can stop complaining and we can go get after it.
And until next time,
this is Matt and echo and Jocko
out.